Furthermore, Kansas thus being turned over to free labor, the speculators, pro-slavery and no-slavery, in her lands and town lots, and plots, and sites, and water power. So, too, in the new pro-slavery Territory will there be a new field and a new market for the speculators in niggers, hemp, tobacco, and some cotton. In this compact of mutual equivalents we should not be surprised were Governor Walker to realize a substantial profit from his financial enterprises in both the free State and the slave State. In fact, the advantages of this adjustments can hardly fall, if carried out, to reach the great Texas Pacific Railroad of Mr. Walker, Mr. Butler King & Co., which, in itself, is a consideration not lightly to be overlooked-Such are the comprehensive teachings of this new and glorious scheme. 
Our black republican agitators may here interpose the objection that this splendid Indian country of which we speak has been sacredly act apart as a perpetual possession for our red brethren, and that we cannot take it away. But this objection is all moonshine. The Indian must give way to the white man and the nigger when it is necessary to save the Union and the democratic party. He must give way and move still further West, or make up his mind for extermination, like Billy Bowlegs. That point is settled, and all other points are secondary to the great consideration of the peace of the Union and a solid footing for the next Presidential election. We all know that the little trading politicians of the day are resting all their Presidential calculations for 1860 upon a red hot sectional fight, and that thus Seward is plotting and scheming for a Northern nomination, while Douglas and other ambitious democrats are as busy at work for the sweet voices of the South. Let Mr. Walker succeed with this new Kansas compromise of his, and he will be placed in the best position for the support of the North and the South; and thus, at a single bound, he may pass from the Governor’s cabin in Kansas to the President’s mansion at Washington.
