Tuesday, May 12, 1857. The New Fever Depot on Staten Island. The press and the public are much exercised in reference to the burning of the house on the property purchased for a yellow fever depot near Sanguine's Point on Staten Island; and while Governor King vindicates the supremacy of the law by offering a reward of $2,500 for information that will lead to the detection of the incendiaries, some journals menace the whole region of country where the culprits are supposed to reside with the permanent infliction of a yellow fever depot in their midst.
We Shall be very glad to hear that the fellows who burned down the house in question have been caught and punished. In this country, no man can take the law into his own hands. Firebrands must not be played with, or the country will only be fit for savages to inhabit. The outrage was signal, and every rightly disposed person must be anxious to hear that it has been followed by the due penalty.
At the same time, there is a growing desire on part of the public for more information on the subject of this mysterious removal of the Quarantine. Very singular stories are afloat, and unpleasant imputations are freely uttered. It is said, for instance, that Governor King saw little or nothing of the spot to which he consented to have yellow fever patients removed, though his Secretary may have known it a good deal better. It is remarked as a curious coincidence, that friends of Mr. Thurlow Weed evinced a singular desire for country residences on Staten Island just before the bill passed for the removal of Quarantine, and it is conjectured that the vote of Tempkinsville will hereafter be cast for the republican ticket. It is insinuated that after these persons had resolved to seek rural felicity in the neighborhood of the present Quarantine station, they discovered that the purchase of Sandy Hook was likely to be delayed, and therefore, proceeded to negotiate for the site on Wolf’s farm before the bill passed, and without knowledge of the people living in the vicinity. Of course all these may be mere idle rumors; but they are quite current, and as the very best quality of Gov. King is his unspotted integrity, perhaps it might be well for him to make some little inquiry into the facts. The people of the city and of the State have no notion of making the Quarantine question the flywheel of speculations in real estate. 
