Wednesday, March 13, 1857. The Independence of the Metropolitan Press. Some of the politicians who have forgotten that the world moves object to the species of censorship which the journals of New York have asserted and exercised over the courts of justice. They take the ground that a court and every officer of it, from the Judge on the bench to the pettifogger at the bar, or the officer at the door, are so holy and sacred things that they must not be touched by the irreverent hand, or even looked at with the ungodly eye of a mere journalist. Criticism on legal proceedings is denounced as profane and shameful. The press must be content with printing what the lawyers say, when they want it printed, and exactly in the form they prefer. As to cavilling at a lawyer’s mistakes that is the unforgivable sin.
This is the old-fashioned view of the relative duties of the press and the bar. The world has moved a good deal since this view was correct. It answered well enough in olden times, when a Judge could have a troublesome editor put in the stocks, or his ears grubbed out by the hangman. At the present day people expect that a great daily journal will exercise a judicious supervision over every public man and every public institution, and most assuredly the courts are not excluded from the range of its survey. On the contrary, there is no place in the country where the newspaper censor is more useful or more needed than in the courts. We have such imbecile and foolish judges, who don’t know how even to keep order in their courts we have so many miserable pettifoggers at the bar, ready to sacrifice anything for a few dollars; the administration of justice is generally so utterly corrupt and debased and scandalous, that were it not for the pressure at times exercised by the press it is doubtful whether justice would ever be administered at all. Huntington, it may be boldly said, would very possibly have escaped but for the wholesome influence exerted by the press at the time. 
