	The Quarantine Act of last Winter was passed in obedience to an urgent public necessity. It was Staten Island that immediately clamored for a re-moval of the Quarantine; but her deman was a just one, and the Legislature readily acceded to it. Three worthy citizens—of New-York, Brooklyn, and Staten Island, respectively—were appointed Commissioners; and they, being unable to obtain Sandy Hook of the State of New-Jersey, made a temporary location of a Summer Quarantine on Seguine’s Point, Staten Island. 
	Perhaps this was an ill-judged location; say, if you will, that it was corruptly made, though we do not think so. What is the proper course for those who object to it? Shall they appeal for a revision of the judgment to the Commissioners, the Judges, the Governor, the Legislature, the People? Such is the old-fashioned mode of applying for redress in orderly, law-governed communities. The new fashion is—Raise a midnight mob, arm them with matches and faggots, and have them burn down the buildings on which the State has just paid fifteen or twenty thousand dollars, and then tell the author-ities to rebuild them at their peril—that they will be burned as often as erected! Is that the sort of rule that the People of New-York choose to live under?
	The police case is scarcely less flagrant. This Seguine’s Point arson and the refusal (say if you please, inability) of Messrs. Wood and Matsell to afford police protection to the new Quarantine buildings, prove the absolute imminent necessity of some such comprehensive police organization as the new act provides. Suppose a Westchester County mob should attempt to tear up the Croton Aqueduct, what would the Mayor do about it? In the absence of the new Police Act, he would be powerless; under that, the rioters could be prompt-ly charged by all the police force of that city. This is as it should be; and every year, as the City’s inter-ests more and more overflow into the neighboring Counties, will the necessity for such an act become more urgent and palpable. 
