May 27, 1857
	The Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, says Washington gossip, has declined any appointment at the hands of this Administration. Mr. Buchanan must be very glad of it. He has few first-class places, while many applicants have first-class appetites for them; and every declension increases the proportion of prizes to blanks in the office-seekers' lottery. He cannot hope for a unanimous blessing from the ticket-holders, but each declension diminishes the number of curses--which is some consolation.
	If Mr. Dickinson has refuse a Mission because he wants no office henceforth, it proves him a wiser man than we had supposed. He is now rather in the down-hill of life, in comfortable circumstances, no wise calculated to shine in diplomacy, and either adorn or enjoy the atmosphere of Courts; he is sur-rounded by friends and neighbors with whom he is personally popular, and in whose society he doubt-less finds as much happiness as "suffering, sad Humanity" can reasonably expect. He is not likely to be so happy, he will hardly be more useful, any where else than right there in Binghamton.
	But if, on the other hand, Mr. Dickinson has de-clined a Mission because he still hankers for the Presidency, and fancies this the way to improve his chances, then he is--with reverence be it spoken--a more inveterate donkey than we in our bitterest days supposed him. The chance of climb-ing the dizzy ladder whereby the White House is scaled seldom comes to any man but once; once missed, it is missed forever. "Out of sight, out of mind," is more emphatically the rule in politics than elsewhere; and Presidents are rarely or never chosen from among shelved politicians. Neither the Slave Power nor any other chooses a candidate on account of past services; it asks not, "What has he done?" but "What can he do for us?" and Douglas, Marcy, Wise! Orr, Letcher, George W. Jones, Andrew Johnson, Jeff Davis, Bright, Rusk, and forty others stand a better chance for the Presidential nomination than Dickinson. These be sober truths and we have no motive but their truth for stating them. If Mr. D. still hankers for the Presidency, let him recall his declension and go in for an office--a good one, if possible--but better a poor one than none. Even the affectation of a preference for private life is distributed and unpopu-lar in these stirring times, when "Look out for No. 1" is the only maxim in universal currency.
