	But, in the mean time, the people are in a most hazardous position. The criminal and dangerous classes, who are strengthened in numbers and recklessness by large accessions driver to us by the San Francisco Vigilance Committee, are losing that wholesome fear of punishment which is the only restraint to their passions, and we have the highest authority for saying that they are likely at any moment to set all law at defiance and begin a system of wholesale plunder. This is no fancy sketch; the facts are well established, and the danger well understood by those positions make them familiar with the movements of the criminal leaders. The same spirit is rife among many who are usually observant of the laws. Not one in the ten of city ordinances is obeyed; very few of the State laws are regarded; nearly all the dissolute and uneducated among us seem to have taken their cue from the Mayor, and constituted themselves the judges of what statutes they will or will not respect. 
	Admitting, for the sake of the argument that the law now going to the Court of Appeals for ad-judication will be finally set aside, where does the Mayor get his authority to disobey it before such settlement? He has none; he swore to support the laws of the State, and, in refusing to support this, he willfully violates his oath, for which he de-serves to be transferred from the Mayor's office to the State Prison. Instead of a respectful obedi-ence to the Legislature, as an executive officer, he vetoes the work of the Legislature for the time being, and assumes the judicial power of the Court of Appeals to decide the constitutionality of a question not yet before that tribunal. For this he ought to be forthwith impeached and removed from office. His well-drilled force in the Board of Su-pervisors, for the purpose of adding official insult to Wood's rebellion, mockingly vote that the po-lice force for the City, under the laws of the State, shall consist of five men only--thus deliberately recognizing the law only to insult its ministers. With all this anarchy and conflict of authority, we do not anticipate any real difficulty between the City and the State, it is only to the danger among ourselves that we invite attention. There is no safety in the present condition of the protective force, and we presume it is this danger that engages the attention and directs the action of the Police Commissioners. There is nothing to prevent them from taking possession of the records and control of the Police at once, except the desire to get along peacefully. And the responsibility for all this ill-feeling and danger must rest upon the Mayor--that bold, bad, unscrupulous demagogue, who holds his brief lease of power under the prestige of a Presi-dential election by a minority of nearly ten thousand in the whole vote of the city. 
