May 18, 1857
	There is some probability that the autocracy of Brigham Young has broken down at last. The last California steamer brought a rumor from Car-son Valley that the great prophet, priest and king of the Mormons had been obliged to run away to avoid the fury of his own people, excited by diffi-culties relating to the management of the Church property; and now we have from Washington a confirmation of this rumor, derived from official dispatches received there. Our Washington dis-patch states that Young was known to have ar-ranged with the Indians surrounding the Mormon settlements for a safe escape through their country. This arrangement he is supposed to have made with a view to just such an exigency as the Carson Valley report alleges to have arisen.
	Whether such a rebellion has yet occurred or not, it is impossible to suppose that it can any longer be remote. The highly interesting letter from our correspondent at Great Salt Lake City, which we are enabled to publish this morning, shows that Utah is surcharged with the premono-tory symptoms of a revolution. We can vouch for our correspondent’s honesty and the trustworthy-ness of the sources whence his information is derived; and we are confident that no one can peruse his startling exhibit of the foul, remorseless and sanguinary despotism exercised by Young and his myrmidons, without an assured conviction that the end of must be at hand. Surely there never was a more atrocious and revolting tyranny than that which our correspondent, with a few simple touches of the pen, depicts. Murder and robbery, executed at the command of the prophet by a secret organization known as the Danites, who obey no other law than his dark and unrelenting will; virgins forced to enter the harems of hoary and hated lechers; wives separated from their husbands by the awful power of the Church, because the bestial eye of some high priest has been fixed upon them; a sys-tem of general espionage, which explores even letters confided to the public mails—such are the features of this offshoot of intelligent American society in the middle of the nineteenth century! Of course such a state of things cannot last. No community on this continent can be degraded enough to submit to it for any length of time; and we may be sure that the excess of the evil will sud-denly if not terribly work its own cure. We are inclined, then, to place some confidence in these reports of Young’s overthrow and flight. 
