May 13, 1857
	We learn with inexpressible pain that Benjamin Screws, the eminent and gentlemanly dealer in hu-man legs, arms, hearts and heads, at No. 159 Gravier street, New-Orleans, whose stock of home hands, field hands, carpenters, blacksmiths and young ladies from Virginia was recently noticed in the most magnanimous and favorable manner in this paper, has been in trouble. WE have always feared that his naturally fine and good-natured dis-position would bring misfortune upon Screws, and that the benevolent work which Benjamin had un-dertaken of supplying his fellow-creatures with their fellow-creatures could not be a light one. Our forebodings were well founded, Screws, the accommodating, popular and enterprising Screws, has actually been dragged from his storehouse of mechanics, his wareroom of field hands and fine girls, his breathing invoices and assortment of lively and promising babies. In the Police Court of New-Orleans, on the 30th of last month, to the everlasting disgrace of all his ungrateful customers, Benjamin Screws was placed in the dock charged with embezzlement. The Picayune 1st inst tells the humiliating story. Our indignation at this treatment of our protege is such that we mus trouble our readers with the lending particulars. 
	William A. Whitfield, of Bay street, St. Louis, had an article of male goods by the name of Toby to sell. Col. Hardy, of Clinton, happened to be in want of just such an object as Toby. These gentlemen not being personally known to each other, it is evident that but for the interposition of Broker Benjamin, Whitfield might have gone bobbing around until the crack of doom trying to vend his Toby, while the gallant Hardy might have passed the remainder of his wretched exist-ence in a Toby-less condition. But Mr. Screws prevents these catastrophes. The Toby is re-ceived into the Screws bazaar, and placed upon a shelf in good light, and in a position to best ex-hibit its many merits. Cruelly misled by his principal, Screws points out to Hardy that the Toby is without a flaw. So seduced, Hardy pays down, or rather, which is the usual Southern style of trade, gives his note for, $1,350, and packing up his purchase carries it home. In the exuberance of his philanthropy, Screws personally warrants the Toby to be sound, and by this foolish piece of magnanimity gets himself into a dilemma. 
