	And this consummation is now imminent. For-merly, he was assailed upon one side only, and by each defeat and eviction driven so much nearer to the setting sun. But at length we confront him on the West as well as the East, and drive him from the valleys of the Columbia and Sacramento as well as from those of the Mississippi and the Mis-souri. A few years more of this process will push the wretched remnant into the glens of the Rocky Mountains, there to perish by the rigors of Winter and famine. Such is the doom inevitably awaiting them unless something decisive be promptly done.
	We think a society should be organized by the friends of the Red Man among us, which should in-vite the cooperation of the most eminent and worthy of our public men, especially those who have ceased to aspire to place or popular favor. This society should have directors or counselors in each State and in all our great cities, but especially in Washington, where so many gigantic crimes against the Indian, in the shape of fraudulent trea-ties, are consummated. Special efforts should be made to enlist the cooperation of intelligent and just men on the frontiers of civilization, where “In-dian whisky” is sold in defiance of law and “Indian wars” are concocted and fomented by villainous speculators. Such an organization, if thorough and energetic, would be enabled to keep the unsophis-ticated Red Men out of many snares, and save them from many calamities. It would take years to win for it the confidence and gratitude of the Indians themselves, but it could do them great good mean-time by investigating and exposing the origin of the speculators’ wars which so frequently devastate the frontiers, and by preventing the confirmation of land-ceding treaties to which the tribes thus sold out of house and home have never really assented. It would lay bare the arts of the “Manifest Des-tiny” robbers, who act as it any means were lauda-ble which result in driving the Indians further into the wilderness or decimating their numbers. If the Aborigines of our country are to be saved from utter extinction, vigorous efforts must be made, and made soon.
