	These trials, though hard on individuals, are wholesome for the Country. They are by no means the easiest egress from a bad condition, but they are better than no egress at all. It was not origin-ally necessary to pass through this ordeal—for a good Protective Tariff, enacted even last Winter, would have averted it; but we did not, as a people, choose that avenue of escape, and must now be content with that which remains open to us. It was absolutely necessary that, in on way or another, our running in debt to European capital ists should be arrested; for the bare interest on what we already owe will form a heavy balance against us for the next twenty years, even though our Exports should balance our Imports. When we had reached the point of selling seven or eight per cent., and taking our pay in the very worst Railroad Iron that men ever made, it was high time that we should call a halt. 
	A revulsion is not a sugar-coated pill, even to those whom it does not break. Nearly all realize heavy losses, either by depreciation of property values, by sacrifices to obtain the means of paying debts, or by losses through the bankruptcy of others. Not many will be worth so many dollars as the close of this year as they supposed they were when it commenced. But we shall import fewer goods, and shall buy them cheaper, than if we had no revulsion. A good many of us will live more economically that we should have done if all had gone smoothly—and the aggregate of these individual retrenchments will be a handsome Na-tional saving. If we cease to export specie or incur debt abroad, California and home industry will be steadily strengthening us at home. On the other hand, were the Banks to stop contracting and recommence expanding, all that we have suffered would go for nothing, and our country would soon be running heels over head in debt once more for the iron, wines, silks, brandies, &c., &c., which we should either make at home or do without. Better hold on to the good we have, at so heavy expense, secured.
