The Amendments to the Massachusetts Constitution

May 6th, 1857

	The People of Massachusetts have just adopted an amendment to the State Constitution, which prohibits anybody from voting who cannot speak and write the English language.  Theoretically we can see no great objection to such a provision.  Certainly in a popular Democratic government the stability of the political fabric must depend on the intelligence and virtue of the people ; and unless they can read the laws that govern them and the discussions the progress of government evokes, they cannot be expected to understand very intelligently the obligations of the one or the character of the other.  But practically in Massachusetts, the amendment is an exhibition of a small carping spirit, and the debris of the love of persecution which never has deserted the Puritan element in the population of this country, and never will until it is finally and utterly absorbed in the more generous, genial and comprehensive tide of American feeling prevalent among the desendants of the other European peoples who originally settled the country.  Puritanism must persecute, mildly or malignantly, some class, some person or some thing, and must have some object for the outpouring of its self-righteous wrath and self-assumed superiority.
	In the first place this reading and writing clause, though one which sound policy could not object to in the fundamental law of any free State, is childish in Massachusetts.  It is entirely unnecessary and aimed at an abuse which does not exist to any appreciable extent, or so far as to offer the shadow of danger to the Commonwealth.  It cannot be supposed that one in a hundred of native born citizens will come under its prohibition; and the amount of foreign population is so small that it hardly forms an appreciable constituent of the body politic.  And even among adopted citizens at this day the number who can neither read nor write is exceedingly small.  The erudition required being limited to the English language, seems to indicate that the class aimed at was Germans and others from the continent of Europe unacquainted with the Anglo-Saxon form of speech.
