Lotteries and Gambling

September 9th, 1857

	The Revised Statutes of this State make it a penitentiary offense to put up any article to be disposed of by "chance," and prohibit, under severe penalties, lotteries and gambling of all descriptions.  That the law is founded upon sound morality no one will venture to doubt.-- In some states--Maryland for example--Lotteries are legalized and taxed by the State.  But they are of a vicious and demoralising tendency, and even in the State mentioned the Legislature has provided for their final extinction in three years from the present time.
	Notwithstanding, however, the stringent laws of this State against such enterprises, the paper teem with advertisements of Southern lotteries, some covertly and others openly, giving the addresses of the offices and advising the public to procure tickets.  The New York Sunday papers make a regular business of it.  That the District Attorney permits these notices to appear without prosecuting the offenders, is only another proof that law in New York has become an ingenious game of hocus pocus and artful dodging full of quirks and quibbles in favor of lawbreakers, but impotent to punish them or deter them in their career.
	While on this topic we would call attention to the encouragement given to lotteries and gambling at soi-disant religious and charitable Fairs, where the law is ostentatiously set at nought and lotteries conducted in the most open and above board manner.  We hold to the doctrine that the end never justifies the means, and that any method of making money in direct conflict with the penal statutes of the State and notoriously injurious to public morals cannot be justified by any immediate good result that may ensue.  The effect of such projects receiving sanction must be detrimental.  How can a boy understand that it is right and meritorious to invest twenty-five cents in a chance for a prize at a fair, and wrong to deposit sixpence in John Doe's policy shop with the hope of drawing a prize there ?
