We are glad to see that several Presbyteries in Pennsylvania are represented in the Convention. The proceedings thus far are mostly preliminary. The report of the Committee on Business has been made, and is now under discussion. This report is a very judicious one, and three of its six resolution have been adopted without amendment. An attempt was made to engraft the doctrine of implication-that is, of interpreting the constitution with latitude, in order to bring implied offences as well as specific ones within the jurisdiction of the General Assembly-but it was rejected. On the third day the discussion pending was as to the scope which should be given to the new Synod, the committee’s report wishing to make it national, while an amendment was introduced to limit it to the South. One of the evidences of the prevalence of a correct spirit in the Constitution is that it has determined to drop the team “New School” and return to the old title.
We are not disposed to look upon this new split in the Presbyterian church as foreboding any serious evils to the country. The movement that caused it is one of a series that seems to run through the several churches of the world, all of which spring from the same mania for introducing new doctrines and inventing new reasons why Satan should catch us all. The English Episcopal church is plait on Puseyism, which introduces the new doctrine of genuflections; Rome, after letting the faithful for nearly two thousand years go to heaven without any particular opinion as to the Immaculate Conception, now insists upon closing the gates of St. Peter to all who do not implicitly believe in it; and the New School Presbyterians now determine to make a cardinal sin of what has been locked upon as merely a social question for more than four thousand years. The result of all these new doctrines is practically to decrease the respect of men for the churches; for it will be very difficult to persuade the sons that they must be damned for doing the very things that did not take away a single lots of their fathers’ chances of going to heaven.
