Tuesday, September 1, 1857. General Railway Convention-What Ought To Be Done. A general convention of delegates from the officers of the principal railway company in the United States is called to meet at the rooms of the American Institute, Broadway, this morning, and it will probably continue its sessions during several days. We have heard that the following named companies are to be represented:-Pennsylvania Central Railroad, Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore, Hudson River, Boston and Lowell, Virginia and Tennessee, Richmond and Dansville, Ohio and Mississippi, Buffalo and Erie, South Carolina Railroad Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton, Illinois Central, New York and Erie, Boston and Providence, New York Central, Michigan Southern, Cleveland and Pittsburg, Racine and Mississippi, and probably many others. We believe that this convention meets chiefly to regulate the detail of railway management, the questions of coal burning, division of management, adaptation of engines, &c., &c., and to arrange for a trial of engines and machinery to couse off in October next. 
We presume that this convention will adopt the usual rule of bothering over small matters without endeavouring to avert the storm which has only just commenced, and which threatens to so far depreciate railway securities that the stockholders of the best companies will never see a cent of their money again. The depreciation in railway stocks and bonds already amounts to a hundred million of dollars, or ten per cent on the thousand millions invested. This fall is three times our national debt, and has already disarranged the finances of the country to an alarming extent. Can this convention shut its eyes to the fact that the railway business is overdone, and that it never can be made profitable unless some of the parallel lines are discontinued! For example: If the rates of freight and passage were increased on the Erie, the Central road would not follow the example, and things would be as bad as ever. If the Harlem road will carry passengers to Albany at an actual loss on each person, the Hudson River road must likewise lose money. Another fit subject of discussion would be the numerous frauds and peculations of officers having the practical management of railways. A thorough expose of the rascalities connected with the business is what is wanted by the innocent stockholders; and the delegates to this convention having facts in their possession should make a clean breast of the matter, and give them to the public at once. Stop the great leak first, and then attend to the small ones-otherwise the ship will go down, with all hands on board.
