Thursday, May 7, 1857. The Licentiousness and Immorality of the Boston Press-Prostitution of the Theatre. Time was, and that not very long ago, that the people of Boston claimed a pre-eminent moral position and had their claim allowed. No practices bewailed more pathetically the horrible condition of the stray New Englanders who were so heart-hardened as to prefer this Sodom to their native places-no pulpits were more savage in their denunciations of the lusts of the world, the flesh and the devil than those in Boston. The city is covered with a complete network of laws and ordinance-the people are governed, legislated, educated and moralized to the most distressing extent.
Knowing all this, we have been a little surprised to find that this fair city, supported to be enthroned upon her tri-mountain pinnacle of virtue, morality and religion, has lately fallen back into the pestiferous marshes of vice, iniquity and licentiousness-that the press has been foremost in urging the people into the pit-that the robes of the preacher are not unstained-and that the theatre, which always rises or falls with the moral taste of the community, has likewise become the arena wherein prostitution is deified, while all Boston falls down and worships a coarse picture of a Parisian strumpet. O, Jerusalem how are thon fallen!
 It is curious, if not edifying, to read the Boston journals for the past day or two. In one column we find a detailed report of most disgusting evidence in a suit for divorce, and in another the language is exhausted in a search for panegyrics upon an actress whose only claim to notoriety lies in the fidelity with which she represents the profligate life and miserable death of a French courtesan. This actress appeared at a normal “temple of the drama” in a moral city, on Monday last, as “Camille,” and straightaway we find the moral journals breaking out in a strain of praise a little more absurd, if possible, than the efforts in the same line of some of our contemporaries in this city. She has, says one critic, “true genius-a face full of intellectually, soul and expressiveness; she astonished and electrified her bearers, throwing around the character a naturalness (?) and beauty (??) rarely witnessed. During the last scene the awful silence remained unbroken for some minutes, nothing being heard but the melancholy subdued harmony from the orchestra!!” That’s good! Another journalist was so terribly cut up by the last scene that he had swelling of the heart, quivering of the lips and intense action upon the lachrymal glands. ANother writer thought he was looking at something very wicked and suggests mildly that it is not exactly the correct thing. The rest labor to make pretty pastoral stories out of the plot, and to prove by analogy that French prostitutes are really very nice, liberal, generous, magnanimous, amiable, self denying, self sacrificing persons, who are suffering under a social ban which should be removed at once. 
