In this view Mr. Walker looms up in the bold relief of a lighthouse in the setting sun. His Kansas programme, our correspondent says, is nothing more than the “original bantling of Dr. Douglas in a new dress;” but this new dress makes all the difference in the world. Mr. Walker proposes the intermediate policy of allowing both parties in Kansas to hold their elections and convention, indignation meetings and what not, without hindrance; he proposes to lay the proceedings and claims of both parties before the next Congress, and to make that the occasion for a new double-breasted compromise which will take the wind out of the sails of Douglas, Seward and all other nigger agitators for the Presidency, North or South, settle the slavery question and save the Union. 
Could anything be more reasonable or sensible than his plan? Upon consulting a map of the United States, the render will perceive the Kansas lies west of Missouri, and that directly south of Kansas, and west of the State of Arkansas, lies a magnificent Indian country, beautifully watered by the Arkansas river and numerous tributaries, great and small. This is the country for hemp, tobacco and some cotton, and for slave labor. Mr. Walker has perceived it, solution of the Kansas difficulty. He contemplates the surrender of nearly all of the present Territory of Kansas to the free State party; and with a small strip of the southern side of Kansas and a large slice from the aforesaid Indian country, the organization of a new Territory for the benefit of the Kansas slave State party. Thus Robinson, Lane, Brown and the free State politicians will secure in Kansas the offices and spoils incident to the organization of a new free State-such as two Senators and a member of the House in Congress, a Governor, State officers, &e. And thus, too, on the other side, Atchison, Stringfellow, Lecompte, Jones and the pro-slavery party will secure the height of their ambition for the present, in the same offices and perquisites in the new slave States.
