Thimblerigging and Pettifoggery in the Common Council

January 14th, 1857

	The conduct of the fusion members of the Common Council last night was anything but creditable.
	On Monday night they absented themselves from the Board and prevented its organization ; last night when the hour of meeting came they were all absent except the Chairman, the Democratic members being in their seats.  Six o'clock was the hour of meeting, and an adjournment was had to seven o'clock, and it was moved that the Chief of Police should bring in any members who might be in the lobbies or in any other part of the building, as the Charter authorises a less number than a quorum to "adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members."  The Chief declined to obey the instruction as the Board had not the power to direct his motions.  At seven o'clock a quorum had not arrived and another adjournment was had for half an hour.  The Fusionists were evidently at a loss how to act.  The injunction granted by CULVER was not to be used except in the last extremity.  To deprive a member of his seat by a degraded prostitution of the machinery of a Court which was intended to be a tribunal for the dispensation of justice, was not to be ventured upon until all other subterfuges failed.
	The Board finally met and were evenly matched.  Then the balloting commenced.  Ald. OLIVER deposited his vote on the second or third ballot, and just then the President of the Board found an injunction lying on his desk to restrain him from acting.  Then the Fusionists had it all their own way.  The Democratic members should then have imitated the action of their political brethren in the State Legislature some years ago, who, to prevent an outrage on the Constitution on the Canal question left the Legislature in a body, and the revolution was endorsed by the highest Courts in the land and almost unanimously by the people at the polls.-- Ald. KALBFLEISCH arose to leave the Board, when the Chief of Police was directed to prevent him, which he did by locking the door and putting the key into his pocket.-- Only a few minutes before he could not acknowledge the right of the Board to direct him to request members to attend ; now he owned its power to compel him to imprison members and compel them to take part in a proceeding by which the fundamental principle of all legislation was grossly outraged.  But such was the programme.  Never did any automatic body, created by Louis Napoleon, exhibit a more pitiful spectacle, with a law presented to it for ratification at the point of the bayonet, than did the Common Council last night, with one member robbed of his rights, and his constituents of their voice in the management of the public affairs, and others under the lock and key of a jailor, compelled to ratify the outrage.
