Brooklyn Young Men's Christian Association

January 21st, 1857

	We publish in another column a full report of the proceedings of this Association last night.  It will be seen that that bone of contention--Slavery--was again thrown into its midst, and the result was no more nor less than might have been anticipated.  A great deal of bad and un-Christian feeling was aroused--excitement was raised to its highest pitch,  and after a session prolonged to midnight, the members of the Association retired to their homes filled with emotions of anger, dissatisfaction, disgust or regret.  The passage of the resolutions finally agreed upon, seemed to displease every one, and it was even amusing to see the position of individuals upon the vote.  The attache of the "Independent," and several that were violent advocates of the "strong meat" supplied by that office, were found voting "Nay" to a declaration that Slavery was "a great moral evil, and contrary to the spirit of Christianity," while many of the more conservative of the body favored the adoption of the substitute offered by Mr. Hayes apparently only from a desire to end the whole thing.
	The position of the Association, so far as we can understand it now, is that it has declared itself to be opposed to Slavery, looking upon it as an evil and contrary to the spirit of Christianity, but a question with which they have no concern.  We advise its members to set their faces against touching any such subject again.  It is foreign to the aim and object of such a body,--it can accomplish not one whit of good in any possible way, but on the contrary it can only serve to distract and harass it, and withdraw its efforts from far more useful and more appropriate work.  We say to them, be not afraid of the mere opinion of men who have but one idea, and that only the narrowest and most contemptible shred of an idea, of the sphere of Christian labor and Christian organization.  The members of the Young Men's Christian Association have every thing to lose by following the counsels, or rather by submitting to be whipped or bullied into a course of abolition action by the Independent, its clerks, contributors, and editors, and they have nothing to gain.
