The Brooklyn Industrial School Association

March 4th, 1857

	A bill was introduced to-day, which provides that the Association heretofore known as the Brooklyn Industrial School Association, shall hereafter bear the title of "The Brooklyn Industrial School Association and Home for Destitute Children."  Elizabeth L. Horne, Susan C. Smith, Anna L. Clapp, Elizabeth Sharpe, Susan F. Hough, Martha B. Cutting, Mary P. Yale, and their associates, are named as Corporators of the Association, whose object and business shall be to establish and support Industrial Schools, and to establish and maintain a Home for Destitute Children in the City of Brooklyn.  The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted by a Board of Female Managers, consisting of nine, to be chosen from the different religious denominations in Brooklyn, who shall manage the business of the corporation.  The corporation shall have power to purchase and hold, or receive by gift, real estate, sufficient for the actual occupation and necessary uses of the Association.  The Board of Managers shall have power to appoint Matrons and such other assistants as they may deem necessary in conducting the domestic and internal concerns of the school, and make all necessary laws for the government of the children under their care; and prescribe the course of their instruction and management.  In all cases where a child shall have been surrendered by its natural or other legal guardian to the care and management of this Association, by any instrument or declaration in writing, it shall be lawful for the said Board of Managers, at their discretion, to place such child, by adoption, or at service in some suitable employment, and with some proper person or persons conformable with the laws of this State in regard to the binding out of indigent children, provided that in all such cases the terms of the indenture shall be approved by the Mayor of the city of Brooklyn or the Surrogate of the County of Kings.  The children instructed in the schools aforesaid shall be entitled to draw an annual apportionment from the common school fund of the city of Brooklyn, under the direction of the Board of Education, according to the average number in attendance in the same manner as do the children of the public schools of said city.-- In case of the death or legal incapacity of a father, or of his imprisonment for crime, or of his abandoning or neglecting to provide for his family, the mother shall be deemed the legal guardian of her children for the purpose of making such surrender as aforesaid, and if in any such case the mother be also dead, or legally incapable of acting, or shall prove abandoned or neglected to provide for her family, the Mayor or the Suraogate shall be, by virtue of his office, the legal guardian for the like purpose; and so in all cases, when it cannot, by diligent enquiry, be ascertained that there is within this State any parent or other person legally authorized to act in the premises, said Mayor or Surrogate shall be ex-officio such guardians ; and in either case, whether the surrender be made by the mother, or the Mayor, or the Surrogate, and whether before or after admission into said Home it shall be deemed a legal surrender ; but no surrender by a mother shall be valid without the consent of the Mayor or Surrogate.  When children are indentured, the guardian may be required, after said children shall have attained the age of twelve years, to place annually in the treasury of the Association the sum of $10, which shall be the legal property of said children.  If a girl, the aggregate, making $60, shall be paid to her when she shall have attained the age of eighteen years; and if a boy, the annual payment, making $90, shall be paid to him when twenty-one years of age.  The Board of Managers shall be the guardians of every child indentured by virtue and in pursuance of this act.
