Thursday, January 8th 1857. War Between Strakosch and the Small Fry Newspapers. The announcement in the Herald of yesterday that Mr. Strakosch, the new director of the Opera at the Academy, had resolved to limit his advertisements to three city journals having the largest daily circulation, has already created a considerable commotion in Wall street, and the first of those left-handed puffs we referred to has appeared. We are confident that Mr. Strakosch has done an act which will eventually save a great deal of money to all the managers. They are all very well aware that advertising beyond the three dailies having the largest circulation is only throwing so much money away; but they are so thin-skinned that they are afraid to refuse their patronage to anything bearing the semblance of a newspaper even when they know that the editor can carry his whole edition in his bat, and then have room for his marketing. They have an intense appetite for puffs, and an intense disgust for anything that mounds their. A former director of the Opera--Mr. Maretzek--has stated as the result of an experience of seven years, that advertising in any papers except the three largest circulated dailies is simply paying away money for nothing, and that the money so wasted would have paid the entire expense of his own and his family’s subsistence. Having commenced by advertising in all the papers, he felt reluctant to cut them off. We have no doubt that all the managers in the city are of Maretzek’s opinion, although they would not perhaps vow it so frankly. Take for example, the Wall street journals. They very rarely give any space to criticize the operas or plays; they hide the advertisements in some obscure corner of their blanket; their united circulation is not equal to half that of the Herald alone, and their prices are severely equal to that of the Herald; they only take the money out of the manager’s pocket without giving him the slightest benefit in return. The Sunday papers have no influence and hardly any circulation. They make their advertising prices on a kind of sliding scale, on the old rule of get all the money you can and give as little in return for it as possible. Every well informed manager knows that every one who patronises public amusements reads one of the three great dailies, and that they alone direct that taste of the public, so far as it can be directed by the press. Mr. Strakosch deserves credit for his courageous attempt, and he will be successful in it. He must expect to be attacked right and left, but if the attacks have any effect, the public being fully informed as to their cause, it will be benefit to him; although how it can, in any event, harm a man to be attacked in newspapers which nobody ever sees, passes our comprehension. Perhaps the other managers have nicer perceptions; but we opine that if Strakosch carries out his idea it will not be long before they will all follow his example.
