Thursday, January 8th 2015. Parties and Spoilsmen in Congress. As the debate in Congress on the President’s firebrand of a Message draws to a close, the different political parties in the late great battle are beginning to ascertain the number of their killed and wounded, the extent of their damages and the nature of the ground which they respectively occupy. In both houses, upon this general discussion, our Northern democrats have kept prudently in the back ground, excepting one Senator Bigler, who was very properly ripped over the knuckles for assuming to be the mouthpiece of Mr. Buchanan. The Southern democracy of the fire-eating school and the Northern republicans of the abolition strips, have had the controversy pretty much between them. Among the most important speeches of the former class, was the late speech of Mr. Stephens, of Georgia, frankly giving it up that Kansas, under the incoming administration and an honest enforcement of popular sovereignty, most inevitably became a free State.
Other important discoveries have been made by Mr. Winter Davis, a leading Know Nothing from Maryland. He has found out, what everybody knew before, that the democratic party is reduced to a popular minority in the country-- that is has been saved from annihilation only by the division among its enemies, and that, in the late canvases, it was as much a sectional party as the republican organization. But this is not all. Mr. Winter Davis has also discovered that the only national party in the late campaign was the Know Nothing party, and that it is the only hope of the country for the future. Perhaps this may be so, and perhaps had this Fillmore party dropped their Know Nothingism and repudiated it altogether they might have carried four or five Southern States in addition to Maryland. At all events, we can assume Mr. Winter Davis that his party will never reach beyond the functions of mere bushrangers or guerillas until they shall have thrown away their sickening, revolting and puerile numerics and rubbish of Know Nothingism. This is about the most prominent of all developments of the late campaign. Looking beyond the boundaries of Maryland, what says Mr. Winter Davis?
