	The Governor of Nangasaki, in 1783, one of this more liberal party, proposed to Titsingh to bring carpenters from Batavia to Nagasaki to instruct the Japanese in building vessels, especially for the transport of copper from Osssea to Nagasaki, a service in which many Japanese junks were lost; but this proposal Titsingh was obliged to decline, as he knew that skilful carpenters were too rare at Batavia to be spared. He offered in his turn to take with him to Batavia a number of Japanese to be instructed there in ship-building; but to this the prohibition against any Japanese leaving the country proved an insurmountable obstacle. It was finally arranged that Titsingh should have a model vessel built at Batavia and sent to Nanga-saki, which vessel was accordingly built and taken to Nangasaki by Titsingh himself on his last visitthither in 1784; but the assassination, in the inter-val, of Tonoma, above mentioned, put and end to all hopes, at that time, of a modification in the exclusive policy of the Japanese.
	Recent events would seem to have strenghtened the Japanese anti-frog-in-the-well party, and if the accounts of the Cologue Gazette can be relied upon the experiment of European ship-building and na-val tactics seems likely to be introduced into Japan under very promising suspices.
	The idea and the experiment are, however, much older than even the time of Titsinch and Tonoma. William Adams, the first Englighman who visited Japan, which he did as oilot to a Dutch vessel, during his detention there from 1599-1612, built two ships for the Emperor on the European model. At that time the Japanese were a decidedly mari-time nation, famous in that respect through the East. They made voyages not merely to the Phil-ippines and the peninsula of Malacca, but even to Bergal, and, after an intercourse was opened with the Spaniards, to the Pacific coasts of Spanish America. It was part of the exclusive Japanese policy subsequently introduced, to suppress this spirit of foreign traffic, for which, by natural daring and dexterity, the Japanese appear to be particularly qualified. The introduction of vessels on the European model, and the revival on the part of the Japanese themselves of a spirit of trading to for-eign countries, would be the most certain road toward the re-introduction of Japan into the family of commercial nations.
