	St. Charles's last attempt at self-defense is con-tained in a letter to Lord Palmerston, in which he complains of these strictures of Admiral Berkeley, and especially of Sir Robert Peel, inclosing a letter from the Grand Duke Constantine confirming what Sir Charles had quoted as to the strength of Cromstadt, and denying that he had ever had any conversation with Sir Robert Peel on the subject. In a subsequent letter he suggests whether Sir Robert Peel should be allowed to remain one of the masters of an old officer whose reputation he had attempted to ruin. He also quotes words of the Premier to the effect that he was satisfied that he (Sir Charles) used a sound judgment in not attacking the batteries of Cronstadt, and that he had thus best performed his important and responsible duty. His argument is, that if he had attacked Cronstadt his fleet would have been a match for the Russian fleet afterward--of which he believed he could have given a good account if it would only have come out and had a fair fight. 
	All this, however, seems but lenten consolation to the English people, disappointed of their expected victories, if we may judge from the leaders of The Times and from the squibs and the carictures of Punch. The first denies that Sir Charles has met the point; that Sir Robert Peel never said that the Grand Duke Constatine had ever said anything to him on the subject; but that still he might have sufficient evidence of the opinion of Russian naval officers to warrant his assertion. Besides, it does on to argue, if Cronstadt were so impregnable, why did Sir Charles accept the command of the fleet intended to reduce it? Its strength was just as well known before the war as it is now. And so on, and so forward. Punch has several bitter hits at him, in prose and verse, and perhaps the bitterest of all in his cartoon where Sir Charles is depicted sitting at the base of Lord Nelson's statue, looking at an imaginary one of himself, and saying: "It is where it should be-- fpr I "am opposite to Nelson!" Sir Charles Napier is not the first military or naval commander whose campaign or whose cruise has not come up to the promises of the proclamation that went before them. And such being the case, he may as well cease trying to persuade people that it did. He will probably never have another opportunity of retriev-ing his credit with the nation, but his example is a warning to all future commanders that he that putteth on his armor should not boast himself as he that putteth it of.  
