January 21, 1857
	The speech of Mr. Bingham of Ohio, who delivered in the House of Representatives on the 13th inst., is republished in The Tribune of this morning. It is one of the ablest of the many ablest of the many able refutations of the Douglas doctrine, and it walks into Mr. Pierce's diluted reproduction of Mr. Calhoun's theories with a vigor and spirit which in these times of Demo-cratic palaver and mystification are really refresh-ing. We have read Mr. Bingham's speech with a good deal of care, and we really do not see that he leaves our retiring President with a lef to stand upon. The theory of "the imprescriptible right of "equality of the several States," and the miserable fallacy of the unconstitutionality of "statute re- "striction upon the institutions of new States," are met and demolished by references to all past legisla-tion, by the decisions of the Supreme Court, by the public acts of divers Democratic doctors, and by appeals which we regard as still more equitable to to the spirit of the Constitution itself. We confess that we like the bold way in which Mr. Bingham has gone directly to the heart of the whole matter, and has scattered the fog raised by politicians to hide their evil intentions and cover up thier groveling subserviency.
	When Mr. Stephen A. Douglas plotted that most nefarious of all public measures, the Nebraska bill, he relied upon sophistry, upon plausibilities, and a general bamboozlement of the public. The whole thing was humbug from the very beginning, and all the long speeches uttered in its defence have been humbugs of the hollowest description. We do not think that Mr. Douglas believes in his own orations; we do not think that the President believes in his own messages; we do not think that the President believes in his own orations; we do no not think that any one believe in them except such as cannot afford to dis-believe them, in consequence of the immense rise in the value of negroes predicted by Gov. Wise. The constitutional right of Congress to prohibit Slavery in the Territories is just as certain as the right of Congress to meet at all, and a deal more certain than the right of members to do a great many things, the propriety of which nobody thinks it worth while to question. It will hardly be credited in the future, that the fiddle-faddle to which we are treated in connection with this sub-ject was deemed worthy of serious and elaborate refutation; yet we are much obliged to Mr. Bing-ham for showing so plainly that the talk about State Rights is mere talk, designed only to cover projects of Slavery-extension and to apologize for rascalities, robberies, murders and arsons, as well as for so-called legislation, which in defiance of all funda-mental law--whether of the higher or of the lower description--attempts to authorize such iniquities. If anybody doubts the force or the conclusiveness with which the gentleman from Ohio has performed this service, we commend him to a careful perusal of the reported speech.
