January 5, 1857
	Poor Sir Charles Napier is struggling hard to extricate himself from the office of scape-goat, to which he has been doomed by the general voice of the Enligh people, for the plentiful lack of glory which attended their arms in the Baltic during his command there. He is remonstrating manfully against having the sins of the nation laid upon his head, and being sent to bear them away to the wilderness of futurity. But it is of no use. Nations will have scape-goats, and Sir Charles may as well thank his stars that he is only peppered with paper bullets of the brain, aimed at him with pen and pencil, by The Times and by Punch , instead of being riddled with bullets of regulation mold, as poor Admiral Byng was about a hundred years ago, as a propitatory sacrifice, offered to popular disappointment, by a feeble ministry. Mankind in general have neither time, patience nor ability to sift evidence very finely and seperate the precise proportion of the grains of truth from the chaff of error. They take the unquestionable facts oresented to them, and thence draw their inferences, and distribute their rations of praise or blame accordingly--often, it must be owned, very much at random. 
	In this case, Sir Charles Napier had command of the finest fleet that ever weighed anchor in British waters, and it went to the Baltic accompanied by the most sanquine hopes of the nation. That a blow would be struck at the naval power of Russia, like the one Nelson gave to that of Denmark at Copenhagen, was confidently expected. Sir Charles himself floated to his flag-ship on the very crest of the wave of popular favor. It was reported and believed that, at the famous dinner given to him at the Reform Club, on the eve of his departure, he said that before long he would be either in St. Petersberg or in a place as proverbial for heat as the city of Peter is for cold. As the expedition proceeded, swept round the Baltic, did little or noting--nothing that a much inferior armament might not have accomplished--and came home again, it is no wonder that a general cry was raised against the Admiral in command, whether the same were reasonable of no. He had not been St. Petersburg, and he certainly was not in the alternative place whither it was popularly believed he had promised to go in case of a failure to effect his visit to the Russian metropolis, and everybody was asking how it happened. Whether he ever made this famous brag or not, it was put by himself or somebody else in that epigrammatic form which best sticks in men's memories, and which all public men who are wise in their generation are most careful to avoid. Nobody recollects a diplomatic platitude--it is too broad and dull of edge to make an impression; but when the same idea has been pointed with wit or sharpened by antithesis, it in-herce forever and works evil or good continually. 
