January 7, 1857	
	The great difficulty in arranging the Mileage question at Washington does not grow out of any difference of opinion among either members of Congress or the public, as to the inequality and absurdity of the present system. The difficulty is that, even with their salaries of three thousand dollars a year, the members still consider themselves insufficiently paid. The large additional sums distributed amond them in the name of traverl they regard as in the aggregate no more than their just due. Whatever objections they may have to the inequality of the distribution, they have a still greater objection to any change by which their own share, however moderate in comparison, may be diminished. 
	Any change, therefore, however reasonable it may appear to outsiders, which looks to a diminution of the toal amount paid, is not likely, we apprehend, especially in our present state of financial prosperity, to find much favor with either House. If the country were reduced to financial distress, if the Treasury, insteadof having twenty millions over were twenty millions short, some curtailment of their own pay might be reasonably expected from the members. Such an act would then rise to the dignity of patriotism. The pain of disgorgement might be more than compensated by the self-approving sentiment of a sacrifice made to the necessities of the public. In the present plethors of the treasury the members feel no evil to make any such sacrifice. On the other hand, the depletion of the Treasury seems to be regarded at Washington, both in and out of Congress, as essential to the public welfare. Uncle Sam presents himself to the Washington imagina-tion in the light of a rich old gentleman, with more money that he knows what to do with; and since the money is to be spent somehow, the members naturally enough appear to themselves among the most deserving objects of the public munificence. The absurdity and the inequality of the present system of mileage is as great, and the abuses of it by greedy and unscrupulous members are so glarring and so scandalous, that we have no doubt some change will be made, though at the same time we quite despair of any saving thereby to secrue to the Treasury. The probability is, on the other hand, that advantage will be taken of the change to in-crease the charge upon the Treasury rather than to diminish it.
