January 3, 1857
	The report of slave insurrection, which had its origin some weeks since in the neighborhood of the Tennesee iron works, on the Cumberland River, has been gradually propagated from locality to locality till it has sent a shock of alarm through almost the entire Southern states. If rumors, reports and beliefs upon this subject could reasonably be taken as matters of fact, one might well imagine that, in addition to the underground railroad to Canada, with branches ramifying through all the Northern Slave States, and stretching nearer and nearer every day to the Gulf of Mexico, there was also an underground telegraph, by means of which the negroes communicate with each other, and are enabled to disseminate discontent and to plot treason and rebellions. 
	The alarm has extended to New Orleans and its neighborhood, and the papers of that city have, after much hesitation and reluctance, ventured upon its discussion. To judge from what they have to say on the subject, a great diversity of opinion prevails there, as elsewhere, both as to the reality of the alleged plots among the negroes, and, supposing that the suspected plots actually exist, as to their nature, extent, and the sources whence they originate. The Daily Bulletin does not believe that there is anything very serious on foot. It even goes so far as irreverentiy to compare the existing commotion to "a tempest in a teapot." "All know," says The Bulletin, "how the slightest " and most trivial circumstances are magnified " by the fertile imaginations of excited or creduious "people into events of great importance." Yet even that journal is ready to admit that a state of things exist at the South which may well account for some disquietude and disturbance on the part of the servile population. It confesses that the excitements of the late presidential campaign were "car-"ried too far, and that they had a deieterious effect "upon the subordination and quiet" of the slaves. We may remark, in this connection, and as bearing upon this view the case, that the alleged plot of which the slaves are suspected, so far as it has anywhere been developed in any definite shape, appears to be merely a plot to runaway. Such would seem to have been the idea of the hands employed in the Cumberlan iron works. If there was really any plot, which is not quite so certain, it would seem to have been a plot to improve the Christmas Holidays to move off in a body for the Free States, and the insurrectionary movements so called, said to have been discovered elsewhere, seem to have been petty much all of a similar character. Now, that there exist all through the Southern States chronic plots of this kind among knots of slaves more or less numerous, would seem to be highly probably. Plots of this sort might, we suspect, be at any time discovered, in very distant and unconnected localities, whenever and wherever the conduct and plans of the slaves were subjected to that rigid scrutiny which the recent alarm has caused to be excercised. Such a scrutiny would at any time, as we apprehend, develop a great deal of disquietude among the slaves, and many projects of escape, not confined to individuals, but embracing companies more or less numerous, and even so ex tensive in some cases as to hae some title to be magnified into a conspiracy. Nor is such a state of things at all surprising. Our Southern brethern have been for several years past very busily em-ployed in putting into the heads of their slaves precisely such conspiracies. No doubt "the ex-"citements of the late Presidential campaign" may have given a new impulse to these ideas on the part of the slaves, but the process began much earlier. Could any better plan have been invented to make the slaves uneasy, than perpetu-ally to represent to them, in the most exaggerated terms, the progress of Abolition ideas in the North? What more certain way to instigate plots among the slaves to secure their own freedom, than to hold up before their eyes the Northern States as the scat of a powerful, extensive and implacable conspiracy to the same end? Who can doubt that the Fugitive Slave law, for instance, and the painful and not very successful attempts to force its execution upon the unwilling North, have, in their results, and in the idea they have been the means of conveying to the minds of the slaves, already prompted more than a hundred escapes for every individual slave that will ever, to the end of time, be recoveaed under its provisions? It is not alone "on the outskirts of pub-"lic meetings," about which, as The Bulletin complains, "slaves are permitted to hang by the over- "kind indulgence of their masters," that "the more intelligent among them catch to some extent the spirit of the inflamatory harangues in which imprudent politicians too frequently indulge." The idea so sedulously propagated in so many Southern newspapers--we may say in all the Southern newspapers--and so perpetually the subject of both bar-room and household discussion in many parts of the Southern States--the idea that it is necessary for Southern slaveholders to be constantly on their guard against an alleged plot of the Northern States to emancipate their slaves, cannot fail to penetrate into the minds of the slaves themselves just as fast and just as deep as it does into the minds of the master; nor, having done so, can it fail to produce its natural fruits, nullification, rebellion and separation in the one case, nullification, rebellion and separation in the other.
