	But "the lobby" in Washington, and in some of our Legislatures, means something very different from this. Whether justly or unjustly, it is currently reported and believed that the avenues to the Capitol are infested by an affiliated gang of vul-tures who endeavor, and generally contrive, to make money out of everything which is presumed capable of yielding money that comes before Congress. Pretending to be leagued with, or to in-fluence the votes of, certain Members of Con-gress. Pretending to be leagued with, or to influence the votes of, certain Members of Congress, "the lobby," it is said, will not permit a suitor for justice or grace from Congress to dispense with its proffered services--he must pay for them or it will fight and defeat him. Thus two or three meas-ures before the present Congress at its late session were said to have been defeated because they refussed to pay tribute to the rapacity of "the lobby."
	How heavy are the exaction of "the lobby," the public has of course no means of knowing as yet; it may be wiser at the close of the pending investigation; but we have an anecdote at second or third hand which may serve to indicate it. One of the most distinguished of our earlier Governors, the illustrious Tompkins, died under the stigma of de-falcation to the Federal Treasury, growing out of his efforts and sacrifices in defending the country during our last war with Great Britain. But Con-gress at length, some six or eight years ago, ordered a revision and readjustment of his accounts, whereby a balance in his favor was struck and ordered to bepaid, amounting to $45,000. Some time afterward, a late Member of Congress met one of the recipients of this tardy recompense, and said: "Ihad a good mind to vote against your bill." "Well," said the beneficiary, "I almost wish you had" "Why so?" "Because, after paying all the allowances and shrinkages, we had only $5,000 to divide among us." This was some years agol we have not heard whether the lobby has become more or less exacting since. We suspect, however, that the cases are not rare in which the toll con-siderably exceeds the grist.
