January 14, 1857
	The resolve of the House or Representatives to investigate the alleged corruptions in the granting of lands to Railroads, &c., with the appointment of an impartial and energeticCommittee to make the investigation, appears to have already exerted a salutary and purifying effect on the atmosphere of Washington. The master-spirits of the lobby were hastily packing up and departing, and it was thought that a few days more would afford dissolv-ing views of the expanded and horizontal coast-tails of the rear-guard of that interesting body. Should there be a reasonable prospect of this, it is to be hoped that the Committee will be in no hurry to finish its labors. For, the moment the investigation is closed, most of these gentleman will be hurrying back: whereas, so long as it shall continue in progress, it is highly improbable that the metropolis will again be ornamented by their individual or col-lective presence. It is to be hoped, therefore, that the Committee will act with deliberation, in which case its sittings will insure great public benefit, even though they should not result it any astounding revelations.
	"The lobby" is, so far as we are aware, one of the "peculiar institutions" of this country. No-where else is it a reproach and a disgrace to be known as the agent of a claimant against or suitor to the legislative power. On the contrary, A london gentleman of liberal education, signal ability and unblemished character will hand you his card in=scribed with his name, residence, and "Parliamentary Barrister" as his calling. This designa-tion means exactly what it indicates--namely, that he who assumes it makes a business of appearing before Parliamentary Committees as the advocate and elucidator of claims, applications for corporate powers, concessions of railroad privileges, &c., &c. As it is not there presumed that corruption or bribery is involved in such claims or grants, and as there is manifest advantage to all concerned in having each application set forth by some one who understands the business and can set forth the merits of the case in the fewest and clearest words, there is no reason why he should be ashamed of his vacation or anxious to conceal it. 
