January 7, 1857
	The declaration of war against Persia, by England or rather by the East India Company, is the repro-duction of one of those cunning and reckless tricks of Anglo-ASiatic diplomacy, by virtue of which England has extended her possessions on that con-tinent. So soon as the Company casts a greedy look on any of the independent sovereigns, or on any region whose political and commercial resources or whose gold and jewels are valued, the victim is accused of having violated this or that ideal or actual convention, transgressed an imaginary prom-ise or restriction, committed some nedulous out-rage, and then war is declared, and the eternity of wrong, the perennial force of the fable of the wolf and the lamb, is again incarnadined in national history.
	For many years England has coveted a position in the Persian Gulf, and above all the possession of the island of Kareg, situated in the northern part of those waters. The celebrated Sir John Malcom, several times Embassador to Persia, expatiated on the value of that island to England, and affirmed that it could be made on of her most flourishing establishments in Asia, being in the neighborhood of Busheer, Bender Beg, Bessora, Grien Barberia and Bikatif. Accordingly, the island and Busheer are already in the possession of England. Sir John considered it a central point a central point for the commerce of Turkey, Arabia and Persia. The climate is excel-lent, and it contains all the facilities for becoming a flourishing spot. The Embassador more than thirty-five years ago submitted his observa-tions to Lord Minto, then Governor-General, and both sought to carry out the scheme. Sir John, in fact, received the command of an expedi-tion to take the island, and had already set out, when he received orders to return to Calcutta, and Sir Harford Jones was sent on a diplomatic mission to Persia. During the first siege of Herat by Persia, in 1838-9, England, under the same ephermal pretense as now--that is, to defend the Affghans, with whom she has constantly a deadly feud--seized upon Kareg, but was forced by circumstances, by the interference of Russia, to sur-render her prey. The lately renewed and suc-cessful attempt of Persia against Herat has afforded England an occasion to accuse the Shah of violation of good faith toward her, and to take the island as a first step toward hostilities. 
