	In estimating the events of the year Eighteen Hundred and Fifty-six, we pause to first ask what they have accomplished for human progress, and for that happiness which we believe must be the result of progress. As time flees onward, it has been the firm belief of the race, that the years witnessed the disappearance of much that was old and unworthy, and the establishment of much that was new and honorable. Certainly, we may in the first place congratulate ourselves upon the fact that the conclusion of the year finds a war, too, concluded, which was terrible in its carnage and its grossly wasteful expenditure. It is something to exchange the roar of batteries even for the false and hypocritical mouthings of diplomacy. War is so utterly silly that peace upon any terms, and for a period never so short, is an infinite blessing. "Gentlenes," said a distinguished English general, upon a festive occasion, "it must be confused that ours "is a damnable profession." We thank God, then, for peace; that foreign steamers no longer approach our shoresbringing tidings of wholesale batchery, and that European intelligence no longer causes our columns to reek like the shambles. Yet we should at the same time be false to our duty, did we fail to suggest that peace is only to be perpetuated by the wisdom of rulers, and that its continuance can only be secured by fidelity to justice. While Paris Conferences are going on--while there is no end of controversy about B[ess]arabia--while morning news-papers are frothing of the intentions of Emperor and of Czar, of Louis the Little, of Sardinis and of Austria, it may be considered certain that Europe is reposing upon a volcano, and that nothing can save it from a purgation of fire and of blood, save a remission of the absolutist theories which are now crushing it. Pile treaty, if you will, upon treaty; plot and p'an at pleasure; bargain and agree, and bargain and agree again. You will find in the end that the human race will not suffer itself to be made forever the plaything of kings. Everywhere there are signs of change. Louis Napoleon still occupies a throne won and kept by means unworthy of a highway man; but who does not see, in the finanial troubles which begin to environ him, the end of a career stained by so many vices, and so full of treachery and falsehood! Already the storm is whispering in Italy. Large-thoughted Germany will not be slow in responding. As we remember history, revolutions seem to be precipitated; and we forget that it is only by slow degrees that they reach a culminating point. Men foresaw the French Revolution for more than a quarter of a century; and he must be blind indeed who finds in the present condition of Europe no portent of change, and of a change beneficial to society.
