September 9, 1857
	The pressure in financial circles continues, we regret to say, though all pretense of groundless panic has long since been dissipated. There were some failures among dry goods men yesterday, but not half so many as were reported by the lying tongues of Rumor, several hundreds of which were hard at work all day to magnify and diffuse disaster. We do not name the houses thus slanderously assailed in their solvency and good name, since to do so would be to subserve unwittingly the ends of the mischief-makersl suffice it that the reports affecting several leading dry goods firms were un-founded. But will not our merchants resolve now and remember hereafter, to curtail their credits, both in number and duration? Two-thirds of the credits extended by our jobbers to country retailers are a positive damage both to the debtors and their customers, both being lured into indebtedness and outlay beyond their means by the fatal facility of our credits without system. The time is ripe for a reform in this respect; let it be thorough and lasting. 
	There is one other point on which the present stringency should teach us. Our current political economy asserts the perfect inconsequence of what is termed the balance of trade, and accounts Gold and Silver no more desirable to a community than Merchandise of equal value. Nay, we often hear it affirmed that the importation of Food, Clothing, Wool, Sugar &c, is preferable to that of Money, since the former contribute directly to the susten-nance and comfort of a people, while the latter has no fructifying power, and but an arbitrary and con-ventional value. Now, suppose we had a well-grounded assurances that the Thirty odd Millions of Specie we have exported since January last was all on its way back to us, to purchase our produce , our unemployed ships and steamers, our surplus of Wheat, Corn and Meat of this year’s production, who would not rejoice at the news? Who would not hail it as a harbinger of better days, a green olive-leaf indicating that the deluge of bankruptcy had been stayed? Who does not realize that the natural and gradual influx of these Thirty Millions in payment for our Products—that is, for our own Labor—would be worth to the Country very many Millions? What is the policy calculated to set the current of Specie flowing toward our shores again?
