	--That is to say: The Mayor assumes that the Court of Appeals will invalidate an act of the Leg-islature, so he coolly invites those who are duly chosen to enforce it to leave in abeyance until that Court shall have rendered its decision! And this The Journal considers fair and reasonable! Is that to be a general rule with regard to the enforce-ment of contested laws? Or is it to apply to this case only? Let us hear!
	--The Hearld gives the folliwng inkling of the devices employed to nullify the New Liquor Law:
	“The Comissioners will find one of their greatest obstacles to the procurement of a place of meeting. Bu the first section of the ‘Act of April 16, 1857, to suppress intemperance,’ it is required that ‘the Board ‘shall sit at the place where the County Court is re-‘quired to be held.’ By the second section it is re-quired that the Commissioners shall in their respective counties, at the place specified, sit for the purpose of granting licenses. It of course, became a matter of discussion in the Board whether there is a County Court in the City and County of New-York. It was decided that there was no such Court in the City or County. The only one that approaches it is the Couty of Common Pleas; but that is not the County Court spoken of in the statute. It was at first supposed to be feasible for the Commissioners to collect on Tues-day, enter the Court of Common Pleas, and assume the bench, for the purpose of organizing, and after having passed the necessary resolutions to retire, if compelled by the Court to vacate the bench. This was found to be impracticable, because the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas say that they will not allow their places to be usurped by the Board of Excise. It was then dis-cussed as to what next place they could go, and the office of the County Clerk was suggested: but they were informed by that gentlemanly officer that he should politely request them to leave. The communication asking for a room in the City Hall, which was sent to the Board of Aldermen, having been laid on the table, and then appearing no other way for the Board to secure a legal place of meeting, Mr. Haskettm as acting Chairman of the Board has addressed a letter to the Board of Supervisors, requesting ample accommoda-tions for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the law. Such a place is absolutely necessary, in order to properly preserve the books and papers which will accumulate, especially during the first three months, to a great extent. In case all the applications for accommodations fail, the Commissioners may be compelled to hold a meeting in some part of the City Hall—perhaps in the vestibule, or on the steps, or in the belfry—but at an rate in the Hall, on Tuesday, and after a formal organization, to adjourn sine die or until the Common Council or the proper authorities shall make ample provision to exhale the Commission to carry out the requirements of the law.”
