	In this point of view the suppressions of stock gambling  assumes a very high degree of importance—no less than the preservation of the mercantile community against a temptation and a danger of the very gravest character. AS to the limitation of time sales to thirty days lately adopted by the Board of Brokers, even if that limitation were effectual it would amount to nothing. Recent ex-perience has shown that contracts for thirty days may prove just as ruinous as those for a much longer period. Certain journals which profess a great horror of stock jobbing and of the arts and frauds of the Stock Exchange, think that the best remedy for the evil would be to legalize the buying and selling of stocks on time, and so to put the gam-bling debts of the Stock Exchange on the same level with other debts. This looks to us very much like the project for suppressing the sale of intoxicating drinks by throwing the business open to everybody—a policy which has been advocated by some pro-fessed temperance men, and which is very warmly pressed by most of the rumsellers, but which in practice has not been found very effectual in shutting up the grog-shops. We are inclined to think that a much more certain method might be hit upon. Suppose that, in addition to the present provisions of law, all time contracts should be declared invalid, whether the seller has the stocks in possession or not; that the right be given to any loser to recover back, at any time within six years, all the differences he had paid, with a power to call upon the acting broker to disclose the parties to the suit. Suppose, further, that the same power of recovery be given to the creditors of any bankrupt, the bankrupt himself being required to disclose all his stock transactions. We are inclined to think that the uncertainty which would thus be extended to gains of this description might prove a serious check to the business—much more so than merely subjecting the loser to a legal liability to pay. The law as it at present exists is ineffectual, because it is not put in force, and it is not put in force because as it now stands it is liable to evasions. Make the law explicit, comprehensive, and easily enforced, before it be rejected as incapable of answering the purpose. 
