September 4, 1857 
	We drew the attention of our readers not long since, to the action of South Carolina Branch of the American Tract Society, in view of the stand taken by that body at its last meeting, as to Slavery. We showed how the instinct of slave-holding told them what was the true intent and meaning of the Society that took the offensive action, and this in spite of the Epistle Particular to the Southern Churches, dispatched privily by the Rev. Messrs. Hallock and Eastman, Secretaries to the Board, explaining that it meant nothing of the kind, and that, if it did, the Board might be de-pended upon for doing nothing of the sort. It tried to pacify the alarmed Chritians at the South, troubled with a weakness for man-stealing, by inti-ating that the Board was a Religious Circumlo-cution Office, and understood to perfection “How not to do it,” even after they had accepted office under specific instructions that they should do it.
	But all this holy oil was poured upon the troubled waters in vain. The waves still roll mountain-high, and the Reverend Secretaries will have to perform humbler genuflexions yet be-fore the storm can be allayed. Notwithstanding the humiliation of their attitude before the South, and regardless of the fair play which should pre-vent the chivalry, at least from striking men that are down as flat as they can be, the Board and the Secretaries have received another “sockdologer” right between the eyes. The thirty-seventh Annual Baptist State Convention of South Carolina was held last month at Greenwood, and this matter of the Tract Society and Slavery was referred to a Committee, with the Rev. Dr. Manly as its Chairman. This Committee reported substantially that as slaveholders were included from the first, among the Evangelical Christians, whose approbation was to be the sanction of the tracts issued by the So-ciety, nothing shall be permitted to be printed that shall imply the possibility of peccability because of their ownership of God’s ebony images. Consequently, the admission in the instructions given by the Society to its Publishing Committee, that there are moral duties arising out of Slavery, as well as moral evils, and vices which it is known to promote condemned in Scripture, and deplored by all Evan-gelical Christians, is a breach of faith, and a viola-tion of the Compromises of their Glorious Consti-tution.
