September 9, 1857
	The Crystal Palace is now open daily for the receipt of contributions to the annual Fair of the American Institute, which will open to the public next week. To us, who have watched the pro-gress and growth of these Fairs through a quarter of a century, and who remember the time when a fair dancing-hall (the Masonic) sufficed to contain every article on exhibition, their recurrence is of course more interesting than to those who have merely given, or failed to give, and evening to a careless ramble through the crowded avenues of a recent display; but we think no American who lives by industry can thoughtfully attend one of these Fairs and no be instructed and cheered by it. Such extensive and varied displays of elegant ma-chinery, such admirable inventions and ingenious adaptations, should tend to inspire hopes of a brighter day for our country and our race. In ex-amining the inventions and products here collected, an American may justifiably feel proud that he may call Fitch and Fulton, Whitney and Morse, with so many other benefactors of mankind, his country-men. He may find at any Fair gratifying proofs that our people are still contributing their full share towards the progress of our race in the Useful Arts. Here are the Sewing Machines, destined to emancipate women from the cramped posture and slow starvation of needlework, many in number and diverse in principle and method, but every one the invention of an American. In machines for Mowing and Reaping, our country holds nearly has marked preeminence; in Steamboating and Tele-graphing, we are decidedly ahead of the Old World. In Ocean Steaming, Great Britian is now running ahead of us, by means of her commercial and manu-facturing ascendency; but in the use of steam on fresh water she does not compare with us. In Clocks, Cut Nails, Edge Tools, and what-ever other manufactures circumstancesenabled us to originate and establish uncrippled by foreign com-petition, we lead all other nations. To-day, our production of Metals and Textile Fabrics is de-pressed, owing to a narrow view of their own in-terest taken by the two or three hundred thousand Cotton planters who rule the Union as they will; but this cannot last; and, even if it should, we shall in time surmount it. It is our country’s “mani-fest destiny’ to spin and weave, to mine and smelt, to fashion and temper, whatever may be re-quired for the satisfaction of her own needs, and no perverseness of National policy can finally thwart this most desirable consummation.
