September 16, 1857
	The British steamship Persia arrived early yes-terday morning, bringing dates from Liverpool to the 5th inst. The underwriters on the cable of the Atlantic Telegraph Company had offered to settle the claims on them by paying 36 ½ per cent in cash. Rumors of a Ministerial change in England were rife. The American horse Lecompte had been badly beaten. At the Autumn Commence-ment of Trinity College, Dublin, for conferring de-gress on distinguished members of the British As-socciation, Professor Rogers of Boston, Mass., was so honored. The Emperor Napoleon had ab-ruptly left the camp at Chalons, and it was ru-mored that he was having a secret interview with the Czr, preparatory to the formal meeting at Darmstadt on or about the 17th instant. There was somewhat of a panic in the Paris Bourse on the 3d, having its origin in the retirement of some influential directors of the Credit Mobilier, the shares of which considerably declined. A dispatch from Paris, of the 3d inst, says that the Court of excizes had condemned Ledrun Rollin, Mazzini, Massaronti and Campasella to transportation. The Mexican Chargé d’Affaires had left Madrid in counse-quence of the the rupture in diplomatic relations. The Emperor of Austria’s journey through Hungary is said to have been a perfect triumph. The King of Prussia has had two attacks of apoplexy, and his health inspires considerable uneasiness. The Gazette de la Bourse of Vienna state on good authority that diplomatic relations will soon be resumed between Naples and England and France, Austrian media-tion having been at work to accomplish that onject. Advices from the Caucasus state that Shamyl still had eleven out of the twelve blockhouses which he took from the Russians. Reenforcements of 20,-000 men are to be sent against him. Large bodies of Russian cavalry have marched toward the Aus-trian frontier with a view of preventing Austrian interference in the affairs of the Dannbian Princi-palities. The Cotton market was less active, but prices were firm. Breadstuffs were without mate-rial change. Indian Corn had advanced 1/ @2/ qr. Beef and Pork were easier. Console closed at 90 3/5 @ 90 ½. American Securities dull. 
