January 21, 1857
	On Tuesday next the Legislature of this State is to elect a United States Senator in place of Mr. Fish, whose term expires on the 4th of March next; and who will carry with him from the Senate, as he has done from other offices of hardly less im-portance, the respect and esteem which is always paid to an upright, patriotic and judicious states-man. We believe that Mr. Fish is not in any man-ner an aspirant for reelection; for though, at the late election, his vote was given to the Republican candidate for Presidency, he honorably avowed that to vote for a Whig would better have accorded with his feelings. Of course, then, even if he desired it, which we are confident he does not, he could hardly expect the suffrages of a Republican Legislature.
	Mr. Fish's position being thus clearly understood, public sentiment long since selected as his suc-cessor one of the oldest, boldest, truest and most influential members of the Republican party. I there ever was a spenfaneous nomination, made by the people without dictation of any sort from any quarter, it is that of Prestin King to fill this office. An incorruptible, firm, wise and truly democratic man, his name is eminently identified with the Republican policy, while the sound and judicial character of his mind peculiarly fits him to represent the people of New-York in the Federal Senate. But these very qualities which have given him the place he enjoys in the regard of the democratic masses, render him of all men in the State the very one whom the factions routed in Novem-ber most desire to defeat and overthrow. Martin Van Buren and Millard Fillmore, John Van Buren and Erastus Brooks, are united in their cordial de-sire to prevent the election of Preston King. Naturally they are not without sympathizers, and as the readiest means of effecting this end, and, in-deed, of destroying the Republican predominance in the State, an attempy is made to array the Re-publicans of the Legislature in hostile camps upon this question. We trust, however, that this at-tempt will be frustrated, and that the wishes of the people will be answered in the premises. If the Republican party is to remain the power it is, not only in the State of New-York but in the country, it is greatly to be desired that Mr. King should be placed in the Senate. Nothing else would so much lead to cement all the elements of the party into compactoess and unity, and to show that it will never fall to stand by the principles to which it owes its existence.
