	Thus the whole organization of the army is upset, by taking out of the chain two links, the necessity of which, in time of war, is sure to show itself. Indeed, the Russian Government acknowledges that neither chiefs of corps nor generals of brigade can be entirely left out of its military hierarchy. The chief of the corps is left there, but as a mere dummy, while the general of brigade is completely relieved from his command, and made a simple appendix, to the general of division. This means nothing but that the command of these officers is sus-pended during peace, while they are kept in readiness for use as soon as a war breaks out. In the only army, indeed, which still faces the enemy--that the Caucasus--the brigades have been re-tained. Is any other proof wanted that the aboli-tion of brigades in the remainder of the army is only an attempt to render brigadiers and their staffs innoxious while peace lasts?
	Another important change is the dissolution of the great dragon corps, consisting of ten regi-ments of eight squadrons each, drilled for infantry as well as for calvary service. This corps was intended to play a brilliant part in all great battles. When the decisive moment approached, it was to fall with the rapidity of cavalry upon some important post on the flank or rear of the enemy, to dismount, to form into sixteen bat-tallons of infantry and defend the post, supported by its heavy horse-artillery. During the whole of the late war, this corps was nowhere; and the total unfitness of these hybrid troops for active warfare appears to have been recognized on all hands. The consequence is, the change of these amphibious mounted foot-soldiers into regular calvary, and their distribution, in twelve regiments of eight squadrons each, with the six army-corps of the "first army." Thus the two great creations by which the Emperor Nicholas expected to establish his place among the greatest military organizers of hi time have both disappeared within a few years of his death.
