But, after all, there is cause for celebration in our review of the year. We have failed, it is true; but we have failed under circumstances which the reflective cannot but regard as the happiest auspices. If we have been beaten, we have still maintained the battle gallantly. We have, more emphatically than ever before, avowed our intentions, in spite of quietists and of alarmists, of false conservatives and of timid toad eaters, of discussing the question of Slavery. Great States have spoken for Freedom. Large masses of earnest men have uttered their protest against Slavery. We still uphold the standard of right in the face of opposition which contains in itself the elements of its own overthrow. As we write, men hope much for Kansas from the new Administration. Certainly, we shall be glad to find it forced into a path less tortuous, and into a policy less besotted, then those which we have been compelled to witness. But upon this occasion we desire to record our settled con-viction that the Slavery question is not to be adjusted by temporizing, and that no course which does not look to the ultimate extinction of the falsest and foolishest institution of modern society, can be considered the right one. God forbid that we should print a single syllable calculated to provoke violence, or necessarily to endanger the perpetuity of the Federal Government. But how can we be blind to the evils which threaten us? How can we cry peace when there is no peace? How could we answer it to the Heaven and our own conscience, if we were to disregard the plainest dictates of the simplest political philosophy, the mesgerest axioms of the vulgarest political economy, if we were to talk of a thing as just which we know to be the least defensible of wrongs, of a cheat, a shame and a delusion, as of something to be nursed, cared for tenderly, and perpetuated? We will not thus stultify ourselves. And certainly the character of the opposition, which during the last year we have encountered, has not leaded to pressure in us any delicate equanimity. The last has been a year of unusual violence in public affairs. The supporters of Slavery have resorted to expediente which are not for a single moment to be tolerated. We must remember that upon the twenty-second of last May a Senator of the United States, for words spoken in debate, was cruelly beaten; nor can we forget how that dastardly deed was aggravated--how those concerned in it showed themselves wanting in grace to be ashamed of it. Such arguments have never satisfied freemen, and probably never will; and, if they have given to our controversies an unusual bitterness, the censure must fall where it is most decidedly due. 
