Wednesday, January 14th, 1857. The New British Minister. Our well informed London correspondent states that Mr. Villiers has declined the post of British Minister to Washington, in consequence of the difficulties which were hinted at in a former article in the Herald, and that the net best man for the post is thought to be Lord Elgin, late Governor General of Canada.
Such an appointment would be very popular in this country. Lord Elgin has been two or three times here, and once or twice at Portland, and has always shown remarkable good sense for a lord, and has been treated accordingly. His history is very brief and matter of fact. Brought up as a barrister, he practiced in Edinburg till the sudden death of a relative placed him in possession if the Scotch title of Earl of Elgin, with an estate worth about 500 a year less than nothing. His ancestor, the Elgin of the Marbles, notwithstanding his propensity to steal, had been honest enough to ruin himself in the purchase of rare antiques; so the present Earl found himself none the better, but in fact considerably the worse for the Earldom. In the hope of something turning up he went into Parliament, as a follower of Sir Robert Peel, that is to say a “moderate conservative,” and made no particular figure till he was sent to Jamaica as Governor. It was in that distracted colony that Lord Elgin developed his rare talents and administrative capacity. He restored order where all had been chaos before him; by a proper mixture of conciliation and firmness, he persuaded the colonists to renounce their various turbulent schemes; and when he left the island he was followed by the regrets of all its citizens. Removed from Jamaica to Canada, at a time when it seemed impossible to find a Governor who could work with the violently excited parties of that hyperborean province, Lord Elgin achieved his crowning work there. In the teeth of an opposition as ruthless as it was senseless, from the decaying rump of the old tory party and the hard-skilled English merchants of the seaports, Lord Elgin inaugurated constitutional government in Canada, and won for himself the very first place in the long list of her colonial Governors. He was, without question, the ablest, most honest, and best Governor the Canadians ever had. 
