Tuesday, March 10, 1857. Another Word About Theatrical Criticism. We perceive that one of our contemporaries has taken up the assertion of Mrs. McMahon, who said that she might have had good notices in the paper is she had seen fit pay the editors. It will be remembered that Mrs. McMahon has repeated this assertion in effect three times-in speeches before the curtain at Buffalo, Boston and in this city. Our contemporary demands that she shall state who was paid and who was not. Mrs. McMahon is now acting at Albany, and we presume that at the conclusion of her engagement in that city she will feel called upon to address the audience. It will be proper for her then to give the particulars of the statement she has thrice repeated and to include the names of the venal presses and their editors. The matter has been considerably agitated, and it is no more than just that the public should have a full statement of the facts in the case, and that corrupt journalists should be exposed. 
The HERALD, which has given currency to Mrs. McMahon’s statements, with comments naturally suggested by them, has been accused by innuendo of venality, because it sometimes prints in addition to the regular advertisements copies of the announcements of public amusements upon extra sheets. For this the HERALD articles upon theatres, concerts, &c, have been stigmatised as job office criticisms-rather a contradiction of terms. A contract for advertising is a job wherein the advertiser is presumed to get the full value of his money. It is a matter of no consequence in what shape the advertisement is printed: it is simply a matter of business; and if the rule holds good against the HERALD it is equally so against all the papers that make money for advertising the theatre. The charge of venality brought by Mrs. McMahon and others is that editorial opinions upon matters of art may be purchased for so much money. This has been acknowledged to be true by some of the Sunday papers, which charge a regular sum per line for editorial articles. The only question is, whether Mrs. McMahon meant to extend her remarks beyond the Sunday journals when she spoke of the New York press; and in her forthcoming Albany speech she can very readily settle the matter. So far as the HERALD is concerned, she as well as other managers stood in the same position as that of any other advertiser, and there certainly can be no venality about that.
