A Coup D'Etat Janurary 7, 1857 An injunction has been issued by Judge Culver, restraining Mr. Barnabas Booth from acting as Superintendent of the Poor.  Mr. Rushmore, one of the Superintendents, not wishing to shoulder one-fifth of the odium heaped upon himself and confreres by the withering exposures made by the committee of the Board of Supervisors ; and fearing he might be judged by the company he kept, resigned his position.  The charges of the Supervisors elicited no defence ; the facts stuck out a little too conspicuously to be winked at, and "moral insanity" had not then been thought of. Mountains of beef and butter; oceans of brandy and champagne ; tons of tea, and indefinite quantities of game, oysters and other delicacies, figured in the bill of fare ostensibly for the paupers and invalids.  The officers of the public institutions testified that while immense quantities of provisions were charged for, very small quantities comparatively had been received or used. Mr. Rushmore cut loose from all participation in bottomless contracts, by resigning. The resignation, which was to take effect on the 31st of December, was presented to the Board at its meeting held on the 24th of December last, and was accepted, and Mr. Booth, universally acknowledged wherever known to be an honest, straight-forward man, appointed. An injunction has been issued on the application of Mr. James K. Leggett, ex-foreman of Engine Company No. 14 of this city, and doing business in New York. The grounds of the complaint are, that there was no vacancy at the time of the appointment  The Board made the appointment on the 24th of December, and then adjourned to the 6th of January.  Mr. RUSHMORE ceased to hold office on the 31st of December.  This seems to us like the smallest quibbling species of pettifogging.  Had the appointment not been made until the 6th of January, the place would have been vacant for six days; and if three of the Superintendents had resigned, there would have been no Board at all. The complaint alleges that as Mr. RUSHMORE did not go out of office until the 31st, and as Mr. BOOTH was appointed on the 24th, there were six superintendents--or one superfluous member in the interim.  It seems to us that we might as well say there two Mayors in office, because one is elected and takes oath of office some weeks before the term of the other expires.  As the law for plugging up and caulking the leaky boat in which the Superintendents now sail with a shoal of sharks in their wake, will certainly be enacted by the Legislature, it is hardly worth while to make the present flurry.  The Board of Supervisors yesterday re-elected Mr. BOOTH, and so the injunction is so much waste paper.  There is no question that there is a vacancy now, and that Mr. BOOTH can take his seat at once.
