	Another law which we published provides for the re-organization of the Police force by a Board of Commissioners to be organised under the presiding genius of the City Court.  The Commissioners are to be appointed by the Governor and Senate.  The people of Brooklyn will thus be as effectually relieved of all power or privilege of having anything to say or to do in the construction of Queen Victoria's Cabinet.  The City Court will do it all--with the aid of the authorities at Albany.  The privilege of paying the enormous police taxes will however still be reserved for the people of Brooklyn.
	This man CULVER is now busily engaed in having himself constituted sole dictator of Brooklyn by usurping the functions of every public body within the city.  By the two acts above mentioned it will be seen that he attempts to have himself foisted into the management of the Police department.  If he could by any chance succeed, the decomposition of the force would then be manifest to all ; as the appearance of CULVER in connection with any party or institution is as sure an indication of its rottenness as maggots in a chesse.  But he does not stop here.
	Of course a man endowed with such magnificent powers ought to be surrounded by such divinity as became his high and mighty functions, and move in an atmosphere of regal state, unequalled even by his friend of Hayti.  This has also been provided for in the third bill published by us yesterday, and to which we wish to direct the earnest attention of our readers.  The act in question elevates the powers of the City Court above those of the Supreme Court, and gives it the power to review the proceedings of the Supreme Court, and grant new trials !  Only think of that!  CULVER sitting in judgment on the judges!  But as his powers increase so must the princely magnificence of his retinue.  None of the Barons who framed the Magna Charter could muster such a magnificent body of serfs as this law calls to the standard of CULVER.  It provides that " the Sheriff of the County of Kings, his Under-Sheriff, and so many of his Deputies, and so many and such Constables or Policemen as the City Judge shall direct, shall attend the sittings of said City Court and the City Judge at Chambers, and shall receive therefor each the sum of two dollars per day, and shall be paid by the County Treasurer in the same manner as constables attending other Courts of Record in said city."
