1 December 1857
“The Industrial School Equestrian Exhibition”
The benefit for the Industrial School, given at the Equestrian Institute last evening, was in every respect a most decided success. The attendance was large, particularly so in consideration of the inclemency of the weather. The participation in the equestrian amusements was general, so that the ring during the entire evening presented a most gay and animated appearance. At about ten o’clock the ring was cleared for the prize riding, and four ladies, competitors for the palm of superiority, engaged in the contest. The grace and skill displayed by the fair Equestriennes was most admirable, and we doubt if their superiors in all that constitutes good and fearless horsemanship, could be found anywhere. They were frequently greeted with the plaudits of the delighted audience. So little was the difference in point of skill between the fair contestants that it was with difficulty the judges came to a decision. The prize, a handsome china white and gilt tea service of forty four pieces, was awarded to Miss PRITCHARD, to whom it was presented on behalf of the Committee, by Mr. C.A. SPARKS. It was received on her behalf by Judge CULVER, who announced at the close of his remarks that the victor, in the spirit of liberal charity which characterized the whole affair, desired that it should be put up and sold at auction for the benefit of the School. The cheers and applause with which this announcement was received evinced the hearty appreciation by the audience of this generous disposition of the well earned prize. The sum realized was $12—Mr. W.T. Leitch being the purchaser. With this the exercises of the evening were closed.
The benefit probably realized some $250, and aid which must be most acceptable and cheering to the benevolent ladies who have devoted their services in so noble a spirit, to the alleviation of the wants and woes of the unfortunate children under their charge.—This is a large sum when we consider the hardness of the times, and that it is so large, is mainly owing to the exertions of the Committee of Managers, to whom much credit is due.
