10 December 1857
“The Administration and the Democratic Party”
Indications are multiplying of a schism in the Democratic party, too wide to be healed even by the cohesive power of the spoils. Senator Douglas has openly broken ground against the Administration, in favor of submitting the entire Lecomption Constitution to the people of Kansas; and the President, as if to render reconciliation between himself and the Northern Democrats impossible, has removed Secretary Stanton, and it is rumored, Gov. Walker also. When it is remembered that not only Senator Douglas, but Gov. Wise, endorses Gov. Walker, and that Walker himself is one of the most able and popular leaders of the Democratic party, it seems probable that a formidable opposition to the Administration, both in and out of Congress, will be created.
At the same time, the President’s removal of John McKeon, for supporting Mayor Tiemann, will not improbably divide the party in New York, like Pierce’s removal of Bronson.
At the bottom of all this trouble lie the aspirations of different individuals for the succession. It is feared by Douglas that either Secretary Cobb, or the President himself, has an eye on 1860; and the Little Giant feels that unless he retrieve some of the ground which the revocation of the Missouri compromise lost him in the North, he cannot hope to be an available candidate for the Presidency, or even to be reelected to the Senate.
The vast majority of the people of both sections admit the propriety of submitting to the people of Kansas the Constitution under which they are to be governed as a State; and Douglas, insisting on the submission, occupies a vantage ground from which all the patronage and power of the Administration cannot dislodge him. More than this, his present attitude is an apology to the North for his past actions; for it seems to indicate that in fathering the Nebraska bill he did really intend to afford the people of the Territories the free and uncontrolled formation of their own Constitution and institutions.
