10 June 1857
“New Publications”
In Part 1 of the third volume of the collections of the New York Historical Society nearly half the volume consists of a translation by the Hon. Henry C. Murphy, of the Voyages of D.P. de Vries—one of the earliest Dutch adventurers to this country. The translation is stated by competent judges to be executed with great merit and fidelity, and the incidental editorial labors show that our distinguished fellow citizen is as well qualified to shine in the literary as in the political arena. This publication of this work vindicates the discretion of the President in selecting Mr. M for the Hague mission.
Appended to this translation is an elaborate note in which Mr. Murphy defends the position first taken in Brodhead’s History of New York, that the alleged visit of Argall of Virginia to Manhattan in 1613, and his compelling the Dutch traders there to pull down their flag, is fictitious. It is not without a spice of State pride, says the Tribune, that Mr. M. contends that no historical evidence exists that so early as that New York began to knock under to Virginia—submitting to vassalage as it were almost in the act of being born—though, of course, in the case of both of these gentlemen, it is a question purely of history and antiquities, their political associations not being such as to intermingle with it anything of current political feeling. To make sure of his point Mr. Murphy goes so far as to maintain that no evidence exists of any permanent settlement on Manhattan Island so early as 1613, or in fact for ten years after. The point is well argued, and is very nearly, if not indeed fully, made out.
EMERSON’S UNITED STATES MAGAZINE, monthly, from January to June, 1857, inclusive. Published by J.M. Emerson & Co., 1 Spruce street, New York.
These numbers exhibit the claims of this magazine in a very favorable light. We find in them none of the vapid blood-and-thunder stories which occupy so large a space in some periodicals. On the contrary, there is a constant effort to instruct and improve as well as amuse the reader. The moral tone of the articles is decided; we know of no magazine better calculated to find favor with heads of families, or more worthy of being placed in the hands of the young. The articles are original, and the subjects well chosen. With the July number will commence another half yearly volume, and those who desire to secure a monthly periodical for family reading, cannot do better than order this.  Price $3 a year.
