10 November 1857
“A Useless Office”
If either of our newly elected legislators wish to confer a boon on the city, and save considerable expense to the city, we recommend him to introduce a bill prohibiting ward constables from meddling with criminal business, or, which would be still better, abolishing the office altogether; The deputy sheriffs ought to do all the civil work which ever falls to the share of a constable, and the police are the proper persons to serve criminal processes and make arrests. The constable’s function, therefore, is altogether superseded and superfluous, and as we shall show, frequently mischievous. When a constable makes an arrest, the county has to pay him a long bill for his arduous services, while at the same time the Court issuing the warrant has attached to it one or more policemen, detailed for the express purpose, and paid by a salary therefor. Hence the entrusting a warrant to a constable has the effect of costing the county an unnecessary fee, while the policeman who is already amply paid to do this very work stands idle and unemployed.
But we do not so much object to paying constables for making arrests, even though their services are entirely uncalled-for in view of the existence of our numerous police. What has called our attention to the uselessness of these officials is, that they let prisoners go whenever they think proper, after having arrested them. Complaint was made yesterday before Justice Voorhees, that a constable, who had been entrusted with a warrant issued on complaint of Mrs. H.E. Smith, who resides on Kent, near Flushing avenue, against Samuel Martin, a man known as “Scotch Jimmy,” and James Reynolds, for a brutal assault and battery committed on the complainant on Flushing avenue, near the Naval Hospital, had, after arresting the parties, proceeded with them to a house in Tillary street, where he discharged them from custody upon their promising to appear Saturday morning. It is needless to say that they did not appear.
A similar instance has transpired again this morning. A noted “fence” named Minch, living in the 12th Ward, who has long been under espionage by the police of the 3d precinct, was arrested on a warrant by  a constable, and suffered to depart on his personal undertaking to appear, which of course he cannot be expected to fulfil.
If the members of the police department suffered their captives to slip through their fingers this way, they would be held responsible by their official superiors and might be dismissed the force; but a constable belongs to no organised body, and is practically irresponsible; at any rate he can commit such little peccadilloes as letting prisoners take “leg bail,” without fear of consequence to himself.
