10 October 1857
“Eureka: One Righteous Man”
What Diogenes the Cynic sought in vain, even with the aid of a lantern at noonday; what the poet Pope pronounced “the noblest work of God”—that lusus naturae—that rara avis—an honest man, the Brooklyn Eagle has discovered. How would Pope have admired, had he lived to read the last weeks’ editorials of the Eagle. They would have extorted a smile even from the ascetic Greek sage.
But though Pope does not live to celebrate in glowing verse the transcendent merits of Mr. Barnabas H. Booth, yet he is scarcely less fortunate in receiving the fulsome encomiums of the Eagle. We have not a very intimate knowledge of Mr. Barnabas Booth ourselves, but if he be the paragon the Eagle pictures him, we are inclined to think that Barnabas the Apostle is not a circumstance to him, and we only wonder that ordinary mortals do not fall down and worship him, as the barbarians offered to do in the presence of his namesake.
Wonderful are the deeds which Mr. Barnabas Booth has done. Quintus Curtius did less for Rome, Washington did less for the infant Republic, than Mr. Barnabas Booth has done for this county. Glad we are to hear this; but far more rapturous is our gratification to learn that these unprecedented services are but as an atom in the universe compared with what he may be expected to do. Let us describe what he has done and what he is going to do, for the sake and benefit of our wondering citizens, whose spirits perhaps may be raised by the joyful intelligence above the depression caused by the financial embarrassments which beset us.
Mr. Barnabas H. Booth, we are assured by the Eagle, when he entered the Board of Superintendents, found his colleagues, without an exception, either conniving at or inciting a horde of swindling tradesmen outside to feed the inmates of the county buildings on “shin-bone meat and mouldy groceries,” charged for at extravagant prices. He—singly and alone—forming, it is to be presumed, a quorum in himself—broke up this swindling system, fed the paupers on luxuries instead of carrion, purified every branch of administration, and all at less than half the expense heretofore incurred. Where is the gratitude of the people of this county, that they did not erect a monument high as the Pyramids to his honor.
But what Mr. Barnabas H. Booth is to do will throw into the shade all these his wonderful works. He is to give strength to a ticket nominated by a set of “reptiles”—by the “scum and dregs of society.” His superabundant and overflowing virtue is to atone for and communicate itself to the baser element which the said reptiles have introduced into the Democratic County ticket. Without Mr. Barnabas H. Booth, that ticket is an abomination, to be repudiated by every good Democrat, with him, it becomes worthy of all acceptation and can be unhesitatingly recommended to the confidence of the public.
Such is the substance of the Eagle’s editorials for some days past. Here follows the simple facts. As to what Mr. Booth has done. The Democratic Board of Supervisors and Whig Board of Superintendents were perpetually at variance, and their efforts to thwart and oppose each other, aided by an inefficient law, which gave neither the proper control over the other, had resulted in placing the management of the County Institutions on a footing which, though efficient, was careless and shiftless, and therefore costly. Simultaneously, or nearly so, the Legislature rectified the errors of the law, and the advent of Mr. Church and Mr. Booth infused younger and it may be abler blood into the management. The consequence has been, that precision has taken the place of shiftlessness, and vigilant scrutiny of carelessness. In fact the same admirable system of checks against peculation, which Superintendent Ripley long had in operation at the Hospital, has been extended by the votes of Messrs. Ripley, Church and Booth, a quorum of the Board, to the other institutions.
In regard to what Mr. Booth is to do, the Eagle’s statements demand an equal degree of reduction to enable them to approximate to the truth. Mr. Booth’s honesty is not the only honesty in the Democratic party, nor can his strength be the whole strength of the ticket. It is a sorry compliment no less undeserved than sorry—to denounce their Conventions as a set of loafers, who have sold their nominations to men so unfit, that nothing but the magic of Booth’s name can save them from defeat. 
By the way, as the Eagle seems in a sad fix, between the unfitness of its own candidates and the rascality of the fusionists, would it not be well for it to suggest that Mr. Booth fill every office, from Sheriff to Coroner? The man who in himself constitutes a quorum of the Superintendents, and who has so overwhelming an amount of strength and popularity, would surely be omnipresent enough to fill every office that has to be filled this fall.
