10 September 1857
“State Politics—Gen. Sherman”
This gentleman, a veteran of the lobby, formerly clerk, and more recently a member of the Assembly, has been announced as a candidate XXX office of Secretary of State. The Troy Times plainly intimates, on the part of the Radical Democrats of the party, that they will not support any such nomination, if made. It insists that the duty and doctrines of the Republican party are not to be merely Federal in their application but must include an honest and economical administration of the State Government as well, or the once powerful Fremont party will soon find itself deserted by its best men and reduced to an inconsiderable faction of the old Whigs.
There is much reason for this style of remark, as well as force in it. The Republicans of Oneida, for instance, should promptly repudiate Matteson, the corruptionist; or with what consistency can they declaim against the swindling operations of New York city officials? It is in the power of the Republican party to sweep the State at the ensuing election—but this can not be done on the Kansas issue alone. The Republican State Convention must set forth in its platform a straightforward and honest line of State administration, and follow it up by the nomination of candidates of unquestioned character and integrity, free from all taint of Albany jobbery, or it cannot hope to retain in its ranks the honest masses of the rural districts. If it fails to do this, and if at the same time the Democratic Convention disavows Fernando-Wood-ism and renominates Judge Denio, and selects an unexceptional State ticket, we may look for a revolt from Republicanism of the Radical Democracy, as prompt as their accession to it. Honesty will indeed be found the best policy, by both conventions.
The Courier and Enquirer, one of the most prominent Republican journals, does indeed assume the ground that the party, being organized for Federal purposes, is only a national and not a State party; and that its members may, without breach of their allegiance to it, vote for whatever State ticket or State policy they deem best. Much may be said in support of this view, though one would think that the leaders of the party would prefer to add to their sentiments on national affairs, a declaration in favor of a distinct and vigorous line of State policy. A party which has no definite State policy, cannot long wield an influence in the National Councils. The Courier says:
Strong, invincible in its position in opposition to Slavery, it is woeful to see a great party, so truly representing the faithful opinions of the People, even step aside and off from its safe position. The Republican Party has a compact, well defined, well sustained national position. In fact it is only a national party, for it contends for a Republican form of government. On that it is to stand or fall. It allows among its members a complete freedom of opinion as to State policy. It is the great girdle of Freedom that binds the party together.
