11 August 1857
“Police Matters”
The Police Commissioners have adjourned for a month, being unable to agree upon a successor to Mr. Draper. This adjournment is an important step gained for Fernando Wood—and also for the rogues and rowdies, whose interests, strange to say, always tally with his. The Sunday Dispatch charges that the resignation of Mr. Draper was brought about by a bribe from Wood. However this may be, certain it is that Wood has been the only gainer by it, while the reorganization of the force has been delayed and the public safety compromised.
Wood’s greatest object undoubtedly is, to be reelected at the next election. If he be defeated, the chances are that he would sink into obscurity. He has many admirers and instruments, and but few friends; and he owes his influence with the former to the successes he has achieved and the power and patronage he can dispense. Consequently, were he once thoroughly beaten and remanded to a private station, having lost the prestige of success and the power to unlock the city treasury, he would lose both his admirers and his tools, and the chances are that he would never again emerge from oblivion. All his efforts therefore are directed to obtaining a reelection.
The Police law gives the Commissioners control over elections, forbids liquor to be sold, and places the polls under the guardianship of the force. If the Commissioners make adequate arrangements for securing a fair and honest expression of the popular will, Wood cannot be reelected; hence his object is to stave off their meeting, so as to prevent measures being taken to guard against the repetition of the tactics by which he caused himself to be reelected last fall.
It is fortunate for Brooklyn that this adjournment took place previous to the intended reorganisation of the force here. One inconvenience, however, we presume is unavoidable. The Commissioners have not yet sent into the Joint Board of this city an account of the funds they will require for 1858. And, as Ex-Mayor Wall intimated last evening, the time fixed by law for completing the estimates is drawing to a close. Hence we expect the Joint Board will have to conclude its labors without passing on the resolution relating to the police appropriations, and difficulty will occur in raising the funds for the coming year. But for this, as Mr. Wall remarked, the Commissioners themselves, and not the Joint Board, will be blameable.
