11 May 1857
“The Fire Commissioners”
A convention of two delegates from each company of the Eastern District Fire Department meets to-morrow evening at the Odeon, to elect five commissioners in whom the general control of the department will hereafter be vested. The Board of Representatives will subsequently nominate, and the Common Council appoint, a Clerk to the Commissioners, at a salary of $400, but the Commissioners are to receive no pay. Both the Commissioners and their clerk must be exempt firemen.
The nature of the duties devolving upon these officers, renders it in the highest degree important that the delegates shall be careful of the disposition of their votes. Among the powers entrusted to them, are those of organizing new or disbanding old companies, expelling members, taking cognizance of disorderly conduct on the part of firemen, compelling the attendance of witnesses, appointing bell ringers, and making rules and regulations pertaining to the department. These duties will require a large share of intelligence and honesty—and a regard for the interest of the public as well as the fire department, on the part of the Commissioners.
The Common Council have a veto power over the decisions of the Commissioners, and it is to be presumed that they will exercise it seldom or frequently, according as the Commissioners elected possess the confidence of the community or otherwise. It is needless to say that the mode in which the fire department has been hitherto governed does not meet the approval of the community. In both districts of the city there are far more companies than there is any necessity for, the creation of several of which can only be traced to political or personal favoritism. And disgraceful rows like that which disturbed the sanctity of yesternight’s Sabbath, have been much more frequent than they would have been under an energetic impartial management of the affairs of the department. The system of governing by Commissioners has succeeded admirably in New York, and we have little doubt it will be equally satisfactory in its operation here, if the right sort of men are elected. As no pay is attached to the office, there is little inducement for men in quest of the spoils to become candidates. Hence we are in hopes that competent men will be elected, though the restriction of qualification to men who have ceased to be members of the fire department will considerably narrow the field of choice—as many of our best and most prominent citizens have been wont to suffer their names to remain on their company’s roll, either as actives or honoraries.
The fire department is now disgraced and rendered unpopular in several ways, which it behoves the Commissioners to remove.  Squads of great lubberly boys can be seen night and day, lounging around the doors of several of the houses, until things have come to such a pass that respectable young women would sooner walk around an entire block than run the gauntlet of their insolent leers and remarks. And hardly a Sunday elapses that we do not hear of a fight or “muss” between two or more companies, or rather between the runners and boys who hang around the houses, not being members. All who want the fire department to be respected and popular, and the appropriations for its support to be liberally made, should go in for the election of men as Commissioners, who without fear or favor will exert every power vested in them by law for the repression of these disgraceful proceedings.
