11 November 1857
“The Metropolitan Police System”
As it appears to be a settled thing that the Metropolitan Police Law will undergo revision and very likely considerable alteration at the ensuing session of the Legislature, it may not be out of place to indicate what we regard as the cardinal defect of the system.
We have already contended that the pay is too high—and this will hardly be questioned by any one except those who are in receipt of the snug little salary attaching to employment on the force. No more need be said on this head, for while hundreds and thousands of good men would be glad to learn a little more than half the amount, the patrolmen must be verdant indeed who supposes that the feature of the bill which secures him $800 a year will not be the first to invite amendment.
The radical defect of the system is, that it heaps upon the Commissioners multitudinous, superfluous, and, considering their position, ridiculous duties. A friend of ours, who was one of those who helped to father the bill in the last Legislature, paid a visit to the Commissioners some days since, to ascertain by personal inspection how his bantling thrived. He came away thoroughly disgusted; for during the three or four hours that he spent in the office, the worshipful Commissioners were engaged—at several dollars per day, be it remembered—in taking evidence in respect to a charge against a Hibernian patrolman of using foul language. The complaint averred that he had sworn “be Jasus;” while the offender stoutly insisted that his expression was the less heinous one of “be jabers.” Prolix evidence was taken both pro and contra, and the time of the Commissioners and money of the public was lavishly wasted in settling this difference between Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
Now all such petty business as the examination of charges against delinquents, fixing the size and shape of buttons on the uniforms, and even the selection of men to fill vacancies, might be safely left to the Chief or Deputy Superintendents, if they are fit for their offices. The Commissioners need not meet oftener than once a month, to select sites for Station Houses, and determine matters affecting the financial and general business of the department. The working out of all the details should be left to the Superintendent.
Instead of this, every petty and paltry duty is crowded on the Commissioners, until it is impossible to get any man of decent standing in the community to serve the office, and Mr. Perit is besought to conquer his natural repugnance to undertake such small-potato functions even for a few weeks, until after the election in December. But, if these routine duties were committed to the regular staff of the department, where they properly belong, so that a Commissioner would be a Commissioner indeed, and not a drudge, then we might expect to find the first men in New York willing to accept the office, pay or no pay; but not as at present, when the Board have to wade through so many pettifogging details that even Simeon Draper backs out in disgust.
Ever since the organization of the force, the Commissioners have sat mumbling and fumbling over the antecedents, testimonials, and like a conclave of old granny applewomen, discussing Mrs. Cunningham’s bogus baby case; and the General and Deputy Superintendents, instead of organising a complete system of rogue detection, which might have been done by this time with the facilities afforded by the experience of the Deputies and Inspectors, have been acting simply as so many recording clerks, whose sole business was to register and transmit the decrees of the Commissioners.
All this is farcical humbug. If the police system is to answer the end for which the people support it, it must be organised like the army, with a court martial of Inspectors or other officers to try offenders as their cases arise, and with real authority over the force vested in the General Superintendents, tantamount to that exercised by a Commander-in-Chief over an army.
