11 November 1857
“Highway and Railroad Law”
The Court of Appeals, through Judge Selden, has recently reversed a judgment given by the Supreme Court of Onondaga County against a claim made by an owner of lots on Syracuse, abutting on the line of the N.Y. Central Railroad. The plaintiff claimed, that though the city of Syracuse and the State Legislature had authorized the railroad tracks to be laid on the highway fronting his lots, yet that by not paying satisfactory compensation to him and his fellow property owners, and procuring their consent to the laying of the track, the Company became trespassers by laying their rails on the highway; and the Court most decidedly upheld this claim.
In the face of this decision, we do not see how the Long Island Railroad Company could offer any valid defence to their grumbling. Atlantic street enemies, in case the latter choose to carry their case into Court; nor, indeed, how any and every Railroad Company can avoid being driven off every highway in the State, unless they can find means to satisfy the rapacious demands of every owner of land on the line of the road.
We of course cannot demur to Judge Selden’s interpretation of the Constitution and the laws in relation to this question; but we feel bound to say that the decision is one which strikes at the very vitals of our railroad system, and endangers in the very last degree the public interests and convenience which are promoted thereby. The Judge seems perfectly aware of the loss which the public must sustain from the carrying into effect of the decision which he pronounces; but he shelters himself behind the plea of the sanctity of private rights. Says he:
[extract omitted]
Elsewhere in the decision, the Judge admits that a railroad in the heart of a city is not a nuisance per se; and he grants all that can be urged in regard to the promotion of the public convenience by means of it; yet insists that without the unanimous consent of the owners of private property adjoining the highway, the railtracks may not be laid.
Our Atlantic street agitators, therefore, have been running on the wrong track. They have been urging that the steam was a nuisance in the city, instead of relying on their unimpaired rights over the fee of the land comprising the [text illegible] in the densely peopled parts of Europe, a railroad company buys the fee of the land over which it is proposed to lay the tracks, walls it up on each side, and permits no vehicles but its own cars to run on or across the line. So fully is this principle carried out, that all common roads which have to be crossed are either bridged or tunneled by the railroad line. Thus railroads meet in the very centres of populous cities, on their own land, instead of using the streets of the cities. It is only such a state of things that will be possible in this State, if the decision of Judge Selden is put in force by property owners against the Companies.
Had this view of the rights of property owners been acted on throughout the whole period during which our railroads have been constructed, it is safe to affirm that not one-sixth as many lines which have been constructed, for the enormous expense of buying land—often, in England, costing nearly as much as the actual construction of the line—would have crippled the resources of railroad projectors at the start.
The authorities of cities would be justified, hereafter, in requiring from every owner of property along the line of street that he should deed to the city the fee, instead of the mere easement, of the land forming the street; or else, under Judge Selden’s decision the property owner may step in, after the city and State authorities have authorised the laying of railtracks in the street, and annul the whole transaction by refusing his consent.
It may be very good law that the public own merely the right of way in a street; but the common sense understanding of the matter is that the city receives the absolute proprietorship of the highway after it is opened. As the courts, however, decide differently, it will be well, hereafter, for our city authorities to sanction the opening of no street of which the fee as well as the easement is not donated by the owners to the city—for at present, it seems that a single wrongheaded property owner, like Mr. Williamson of Syracuse in the above case, or half a dozen, as in our own Atlantic street instance, may compel a railroad company either to buy off their opposition, or to quit a location where they have gone to the expense, with the consent of the city and State, of constructing a railroad for the convenience of the public.
