12 August 1857
“The House of Refuge”
The Joint Board of Finance, in their meeting last evening to fix the appropriations for the ensuing year, held a session of three hours duration, and effected nothing. They began on the Contingent Fund,  and they ended on the Contingent Fund, precisely where they had begun. And furthermore, there is little probability, unless some of the members can be induced to recede from their present stand, of the Contingent Fund appropriation ever being passed. A two thirds vote is required to its adoption; and while more than one third of the members present last night are resolute in declaring that it shall not pass except it include a provision for the House of Refuge about to be established, another third are quite as strenuous in their resolve that it shall not pass while it includes any provision for that purpose. The consequence was last evening that the appropriation did not pass at all.
The pith of the question about this House of Refuge item lies in a nutshell. The Legislature, in 1853, passed a law directing the appropriation of funds for the detention and care of vagrant children, so as to save members of that unhappy class from crime, and from the lifelong disgrace of entering the Penitentiary in early life, and growing up to swell the ranks of the felons and jail birds, already so numerous in our midst. The Joint Board last year appropriated $10,000 to carry out the purposes of this act. That sum has only very recently been called into requisition, in consequence of the committee having the matter in charge having only a short time since been able to procure a suitable building for the purpose. Now, having obtained a lease of the old Penitentiary, they purpose expending the $10,000 in fitting it up and maintaining for the remainder of the year as many children as may be placed in it. For the support of the institution next year, they on Monday night applied to the Joint Board for the modest sum of $5000, which was granted. The session of last evening was spent in fruitless efforts to pass the Contingent Fund appropriation, with or without this item.
It is human to err; and there is hardly a subject on which two opinions may not be honestly entertained. But it does appear to us that this is a matter so clear and plain, that no man of ordinary intelligence and common sympathies can question either the overwhelming importance of the object to be advanced by this appropriation, or the necessity of granting the sum asked for its advancement. It would seem a waste of words to demonstrate to educated and rational men that prevention is better than cure; that while we are spending hundreds of thousands annually in maintaining police, courts, jails, and other means of punishing crime, it is an act of true economy, as well as humanity and benevolence, to set apart a few thousands to be applied to the prevention of crime, and to lessening the number of criminals, and so obviating the necessity for our present enormous outlay for punitive purposes. 
Yet there is no doubt that most of those who oppose this appropriation, do so not because they think the House of Refuge does not need it, but because they know it is needed, and they are opposed to the reclamation of vagrant children per se. Most of them have avowed this, by their previous votes and speeches. But last evening the ground assumed was that the appropriation was not needed, as the original sum of $10,000 remains unexpended. One gentleman (Supervisor Campbell) did attempt to argue that there were not vagrant children enough in the city to render a system of reclamation necessary; but he directly stultified himself by complaining that his own ward was full of prowling urchins. 
The House of Refuge, as yet, is in embryo; it is as yet an experiment. We do not know at present how many children will be sent there, or what it will cost to maintain them. But we do know that the city is pledged to try the experiment, and that $10,000 have been merged into that experiment; and if an appropriation is not granted for next year, the experiment will not have a fair trial, and the original $10,000 will be absolutely thrown away. The only way in which the $10,000 can yield a substantial return to the city, will be by following it up with a further appropriation for next year. We trust therefore, for the credit of our public men, that the Contingent Fund, when passed, will include the sum needed for the next year’s support of the House of Refuge.
Meanwhile, little need be said about the dead lock which the business of the Board has encountered. The members all know, as we do, the urgent necessity of completing the appropriations, so as to facilitate the levying of the taxes at the proper period. As to the remarks of the opponents of the House of Refuge in regard to the “tactics” by which the dead lock was caused, we think the less said about “tactics” the better, from a side which attempted to carry its point by the unprecedented outrage of imposing spurious votes upon the division list. Certainly such “tactics” are worthy of the cause they were made to subserve.
