12 May 1857
“Grave Yards and Water Works”
Much excitement has lately originated from a proposition now before the Water Commissioners to run the conduit from the Reservoir of the Brooklyn Water Works, through the Evergreen Cemetery. The selection of the route it appears had already been made, when a proposition was presented on the part of the Cemetery to change its location. The terms of the proposition have not yet fully transpired, but it is understood that the Cemetery is to give the land in consideration of being furnished with a permanent supply of water for ornamental ponds and fountains throughout their grounds. Under the present arrangement the Contractor is obliged to furnish the City with a good title to the strip of ground used for an aqueduct. By the means proposed the Contractor saves a large amount of money, and this appears to be the only advantage derived from the change. But the public are not yet satisfied that grave yards are the best filterers for pure drinking water, and therefore a strong antipathy has been manifested to the arrangement. A few years will fill the ground adjacent to the water course with thousands of dead bodies, passing through the various stages of decomposition, spreading their effluvia and saturating the soil with most unpleasant substances. A close conduit or an iron pipe may almost entirely protect the water from these effects, but it could not fail to create a strong antipathy in the mind of the public, who are exceedingly sensitive upon this subject. Perhaps such a contract by the City for permanently supplying this Cemetery with water might not be binding in law, as not being within the powers of the Common Council, but to remove the aqueduct when once the ground had been secured and the line fixed could not fail to involve the City in much expense and trouble. Besides any arrangement for the diversion of a large amount of water, procured at a heavy cost to the City, before the quantity of the supply has been practically tested, would seem to be highly inexpedient. Estimates have been made of the supply, but how much water will be lost by throwing back upon the fountain heads such a number of feet of water, as shall be necessary to raise the pond to a sufficient height to be let off into the conduit; how much by depriving their bottoms of the present slimy coating which covers the porousness of the soil; how much by the filtration through the additional surface to be covered; and how much from the increased evaporation from the extended surface; are questions yet untested. If the persons who made these estimates should be as far under the truth as the very competent Engineers who estimated the cost of the Croton Water Works, the Hudson and Erie Rail Roads, at about one-third of their actual expenses, we may yet have a striking demonstration of the fallibility of calculations made by scientific men upon such an uncertain and fluctuating subject as the quantity of water furnished by these small ponds and streams. When we have fully tested this matter and tried the wasting heat of a dry summer, and find that we have a reliable surplus, it will then be ample time to make arrangements with cemetery grounds, by diverting a pipe from the main channel to their premises, instead of running it through them. For this they will undoubtedly be willing to pay liberally, and a permanent revenue be derived therefrom, instead of a tax, and the water be freed from suspicion of impurity.
