12 November 1857
“The Common Council and Its Business”
If any apology were needed for the passage by the last Legislature of the amendment of the charter of this city which will reduce the number of our aldermen one half, it might be found in the circumstances which transpired last night. On Monday the Common Council found itself, as usual, afflicted with a plethora of business; and an extra meeting was called for last night with a view of fetching up arrears. As is generally the case at extra meetings, there was not a quorum present; and nearly half the Board had the trouble of attending for nothing. It is not reasonable to expect that business men will devote more than one four hours’ sitting per week to the corporation business, without pay, besides attending committees and transacting outside business; and we therefore see no cause for censuring those who failed to attend last evening. Yet, on the other hand, the city’s business has got to be done, and the gentlemen who have accepted the office of aldermen have got to do it. And, according to the circumlocutory routine in which things are managed, it is found that thirty-eight aldermen, sitting in Board rooms four hours per week, cannot keep pace with the accumulation of business. The reception of fresh communication alone, occupies three out of the four hours nearly every Monday—leaving insufficient time for the disposal of the arrears of business which have accrued in the various departments of the city government, and in the hands of committees. How are these arrearages to be brought up, is a question to which President Pierson pointedly directed the attention of the members present last evening.
In our opinion the reduction of the number of aldermen from two in each ward to one, which takes effect next May, is a step in the right direction. Nineteen is a much more manageable and efficient body for the transaction of ordinary business than thirty-eight; and where now two gentlemen deem it their duty to enlighten the Board on the merits of some exclusively ward matter, only one will then speak, and thus half the time so spent will be saved. A more regular attendance at extra meetings like that of last night may also be expected; for when a man knows that either he must attend or his ward will be totally unrepresented, he will not fail to be present; but now frequently both aldermen are absent, each presuming that his colleague is attending to look after the affairs pertaining to his ward.
But there is another change which would have even more effect in saving time and facilitating the despatch of business. At present, every bill against the city, however small or however periodical, is submitted to the Common Council in open Board; so with every petition for alteration of assessment, or for discharge certificates of firemen, and other matters, which are invariably and necessarily referred to certain committees. We have never been able to see why documents of this sort—which in reality comprise the larger half of the communications sent to the Board and whose presentation monopolises half its time—should not be handed in directly to the committees, and not come before the Board, until reported on. No delay, but rather increased expedition, would result from this plan to the affairs themselves; while the Board, released from this onerous routine work, would be left free to occupy itself with the reception of its committees’ reports, which are present are accumulating with alarming magnitude in the desks of the respective chairmen.
