12 September 1857
“Worth Trying”
Why is it that the lesson which so many people are slowest to learn is that of economy? Extravagance in expenditures is so common, so almost universal, at the present day, that is seems a matter of impossibility, almost, to stem the current, to disregard the contagion of the seductive but evil example, and to live soberly and naturally, according to our means. For men, and fewer of the other sex, have the moral courage to let “keeping up appearances” alone, and to practice a sensible and systematised economy.
The number of those who are living beyond their means is, as everybody knows, who is at all conversant with the workings of our social system, exceedingly large, and constantly increasing. There are many—every reader, indeed, can point them out—who, while surrounded by every luxury, faring sumptuously every day, rejoicing in expensive furniture, brown stone fronts, rich clothing, fast horses, fast boarding-schools for children, and all the other surroundings of wealth, who yet are eternally followed by the “cold shade” of anticipated bankruptcy, and who know that their fine fabric of outward show may dissolve at any moment, “like some unsubstantial fabric faded,” and leave not a wreck behind. The number of those who live in this condition, sinking deeper and deeper into the mire with every succeeding month, enjoying nothing, eternally tortured by the dread of a coming “smash”—knowing, while they are blazing away like a rocket, that the time is approaching when they must come down like the stick—the number of these, we say, is greater even than the most astute and cynical observer has any idea of.
It is not difficult to appreciate the motives that impel these victims of “appearances” to this suicidal course. They are very plain—not at all complex. The contagion of example is almost irresistible. What Mrs. Grundy will say, exerts an influence over American society, among the members of which approbativeness is generally the ruling organ, that can hardly be overestimated. That terrific old lady rules us with a rod of iron. We tremble at her frown, we cringe beneath her awful mandates, we are willing to submit to any inconvenience, to any suffering, to any loss of independence, of manliness—we had almost said of honor, in order that the stony eyes of this worst of tyrants may not overwhelm us by a glance of disapprobation.
The game is a gay one, at least in outward seeming, but it cannot last. It cannot last either with individuals or communities. A day of reckoning must come in the end—willful extravagance, like something very different—love, namely—is “sooner or later its own avenger.” The bubble of fair show and outward seeming sustained by nothing more substantial than shifts and subterfuges, and mean shames and dodges to “raise” the wind, must explode, the prismatic hues that shone so brilliantly in the brief sunshine of seeming prosperity must vanish, and the grey, leaden realities of shame, poverty and “the loop-holes of retreat” take their place.
Just now, we are passing through perilous times—times of financial depression and general doubt and apprehension. The prospect ahead is, to say the least, dubious. Money will not be any too plenty during the coming winter. Probably, not much of it will be picked up on the highways. It is now the time, if ever there was a time, for family and individual retrenchment, for curtailing useless luxuries, for trying the experiment for once, by half our dashing Potiphars, et solgenus trans, of living within their means.
Is it not worth trying? Can it not be done? Is not such a reform needed at such times as the present, by the high and low, the rich and poor? To those who have lived and are living beyond their means, through the contagion of example, though fondness for show and fashion, or an overwhelming fear of what Mrs. Grundy will say, we propound the query—Is it not worth trying? Nothing is wanted but a sensible example. Who will be among the first to set it?
