13 August 1857
“Missouri To be Free”
The emancipation of Missouri may now be regarded as certain—the only uncertainty is as to the length of time which will be required to effect this result. Whatever political name the newly elected Governor, Rollins, may have gone by, it is plain that he was not elected upon the issue of Americanism. His sentiments in regard to the probable extinction of slavery in the State, were such that every pro-slavery vote must have been recorded against him; and his election is proof that there is already a majority in Missouri, who are either opposed to slavery, or indifferent to its preservation.
The focus of the agitation for emancipation is at St. Louis—and this is not to be wondered at. The existence of large cities like St. Louis—bustling, active, energetic centres of trade and business—is in itself incompatible with that of slavery. Such cities can be built up, and their prosperity created, only by free labor. St. Louis would never have been the enterprising growing city that it is, but for the constant streams of free laborers pouring into it—and who, diffusing themselves in large numbers throughout the State, have formed the nucleus of the now vigorous Emancipation party.
The contest in Kansas has not been without its effect in exhibiting the relative merits of freedom and slavery, in a Northern latitude. And the almost certainty of Kansas being free has lessened the value of slave property in that part of Missouri bordering on Kansas.
But the main cause contributing to extinguish slavery in Missouri is the large purchases of land made by Northern and European emigrants. Enormous grants to railroads, and the devices of speculators, have sent up the value of good lands in the free Western states to a height which necessarily directed the attention of emigrants to the equally fertile and cheaper lands in Missouri. These causes in combination have already placed an anti-slavery candidate in the gubernatorial chair, and will probably continue to operate until Missouri is lost to the South.
