13 May 1857 
“The Theatre Question”
Sundry clergymen and others are wrangling about the theatre—whether it is to be countenanced by decent people, and whether all stage plays and stage-actors and actresses are not pretty sure to be damned in the next world, no matter how it happens with them in this. One clergyman announced a deliberate oration at the Opera House, and sadly prophesied that he was going to be a martyr for it, and rather invited the foe to come on, with fires and faggots. Other clergymen have followed suit, pretty generally writing against the theatre, and quoting texts from the Fathers and from Scripture without stint.
The principal fault of most of these homilies is that our clergymen undertake to a treat a practical matter, where they have had neither practice nor observation; in short they know nothing about it. They never go to the theatre—they boast of keeping away from such worldly neighborhoods—they will not defile themselves by presence and contact with the impure.
Play, theatres, and actors, follow the laws of supply and demand. What the public want, and what they are sufficiently developed to comprehend, that will arise, and that will “pay,” and be successful. This is as it should be. The onsets and arguments, (through we have seen hardly any arguments,) of clergymen and others result in no more effect than the idle wind. We doubt whether all these week-day and Sunday speeches on the subject of the drama have enlightened one single person, or produced any serious effect whatever, for good or bad.
It is astonishing what a hold dramatic representation has upon men! For years in America, there has been no first-rate (or even second-rate) genius upon the stage—and yet the theatres have all been in full blast, and nightly attended by thousands and thousands. –Of what is called, “amusement” they engross such an immense majority of the people, as to make the whole of the others, in comparison, of no account.
Some think theatres will never resume their old popularity and be what they were in England during the eighteenth century. Others again prophesy some great recuperation of the theory of the drama, and of the practice of stage acting. For our part, we are willing to leave the question and the result to the processes of time, public education, taste, judgement, and to the natural laws.
