13 May 1857 
“Our Relations With England”
A great deal of unnecessary comment is caused both here and in England by Lord Palmerston’s rejection of the Dallas Clarendon treaty. The filibuster wing of the Democracy, anxious to avenge the wrongs of Mitchell, Meagher & Co., talks loud as thunder, and an article, attributed to Hon. R.J. Walker, has appeared in the Daily News, endeavoring to prove that a war with England would, by postponing the slavery agitation sine die, be the greatest blessing America could receive. Per contra the Wall Street men, the solid bankers and traders, shudder at the thought of suspended commerce and fallen stocks, and the Courier and Enquirer, N.Y. Times, and other journals, have published articles to show that the British were right in rejecting the Senate amendments to the treaty. These journals repudiate altogether the literal enforcement of the Monroe doctrine. The Times this morning roundly asserts—“It is flatly impossible for us to prevent Great Britain from filling the position in Central America to which she is fairly entitled as the first commercial nation of the Globe, and the second in rank of American Powers.” The question is, shall another treaty be attempted. We think not. All that diplomacy can do to effect a treaty settlement has been effected by Mr. Dallas and Lord Clarendon. America and England cannot be better represented than the two countries were by these men, and no settlement fairer to both countries, and more acceptable to both peoples, can be made. Yet, while the U.S. Senate obstinately refuse to accede to the clause forever forbidding Slavery in the Bay Islands, and the British ministry as obstinately adhere to it, it is hopeless to expect that any treaty worth having can be made. We may indeed have a document like the Clayton Bulwer treaty, susceptible of two interpretations, and which each country understands in the sense favorable to itself; but such treaty can determine nothing, its own sense being undeterminable. 
The only alternative, therefore, is to have no treaty at all; and we believe that to dispense with treaties hereafter will be the best security for mutual good will. The two nations have never been more harmonious than since the Clayton-Bulwer abortion was virtually abrogated, though during most of the while Queen Victoria had no ambassador at Washington.
The use of treaties, is to define the limits of territories, and to prevent a strong power from trampling on the rights of a weaker one. Between a strong and weak territorial neighbor, it is necessary there should be definite provisions for the security of the weaker from the encroachments of the stronger. It would have been well for Nicaragua, had there been a definite treaty between herself and the United States, which would have bound the latter to preserve the isthmus from the devastating, bloody results of Walker’s piratical incursion. But between the United States and Great Britain no such agreement is required. Each, knowing its own rights, will know also how to maintain them. The consciousness of its own power will prevent either from submitting to injustice, while the consciousness of the other’s strength will lead each to refrain from inflicting injustice. The course of events is showing more and more, that between first-class powers treaties are mere waste paper, and the conferences of ambassadors little else than harlequinades.
