13 November 1857
“Legalizing Vice”
There are certain propensities and passions inherent in our nature which will have vent in one shape or another, despite all the combined legislative wisdom of communities. It has been so always, it is so now and until some radical charge takes place in frail human nature, it will always be so. The passion for sudden gain will continue as heretofore to draw men to the gambling table, the lottery office and the like, and the more sensuous part of our nature, when unduly predominant, will degenerate into licentious excess. All laws against these masters-vices are found to be comparatively inoperative, and it is a question with many minds whether instead of allowing harsh laws against them, which are a dead letter, to remain on the statute books, it were not better to publicly recognize them and in legal restraints and regulations find a safety valve for the escape of the excesses which would otherwise prey upon the vitals of the community with a far more destructive effect.
The vice of licentiousness, in our large cities, has grown, of late years, to be such a terrible evil that the plan has been again mooted of placing it under legal supervision as in most of the large continental cities. Since such a thing as extirpation cannot be hoped for, it is argued that mitigation is the next best thing, and that it would be bigotry of the worst kind to reject it, if indeed, it were proved to be such.
In reference to gambling the same idea is now being agitated. A correspondent of a morning journal, writing from Baden Baden, thus embodies the result of his observations at that well-known resort:
Their customers are mostly found among those who have money to lose,--men who have arrived at the age of reason. Cheating is never practiced, and the player’s mind is at ease on this score. A certain chance, it is true, rests in favor of the bank, but the player knows it, and “takes the responsibility.”—With twenty francs you may have the pretension, that is to say, you are free to try to gain an enormous sum, which lies before you, and which you are sure to be paid if you gain it; while with another player your gains are often reduced to the honor alone of gaining. Here, if you gain, you do not have the remorse of having ruined a friend, or of constraining a man in need. You are not exposed to the most disagreeable of all quarrels, the quarrel of the gaming table, because here there never is a quarrel.
Before the impersonal individual who controls the bank, you do not fear to be playing in bad company. You cannot pass the night at play, since the Karsaal closes at elven o’clock. But, perhaps, better than all, you never lose more than you have in your pockets, you cannot stake your paper, nor your railroad stock, nor your houses or farms, nor the patrimony of your wife and children, since no man’s word is taken at the table. The banker knows nobody: he knows only the money thrown before him.
What do we see on the contrary in the gambling hells of England or the United States! There men give way to their passions, and ruin themselves and their families; cheating is the rule and not the exception, and liquor steps in to add its terrible influence to evil. The moralists in Europe, as you know, believe that for the passions, it is wiser to adopt a safety-valve by which may escape the excesses of an energy otherwise threatening to the peace of the family. Has not Germany, in the establishment of these immense casinos for well-regulated gambling, found the best of all the safety-valves for this particular passion?
These are questions for the serious consideration of publicists, philanthropists and of all reasonable and unprejudiced minds. It may be long before we can look upon these topics in the business-like, matter-of-fact manner in which our European friends regard them, but while we should jealously guard against the contagion of their laxity of morals and latitudinarian views, we should be careful at the same time not to allow a blind prejudice to stand in the way of a tangible benefit.
