13 October 1857
“Spiritual Relief”
Several of our eminent moral leaders have seriously recommended the practice of prayer, to avert the evils of the recent money crisis. They speak earnestly of “faith” in Providence, and “an abiding trust” that this revulsion is brought about by “Him who doeth all things well,” for a wise and beneficent purpose. One of the learned doctors went so far as to say, perhaps facetiously, that he hoped this pressure might not be offered as an excuse for the non-payment of pew rent. From the general tone of the sermons preached from the text of “the Crisis,” the careful observer would deduct a poor opinion of the system of received theology. With an ill grace, and savoring but slightly of holy meditation, does the recommendation of prayer come from the lips of a man who represents “purple and fine linen,” both in a fat salary and an extravagant church. Those who feel to-day the bitter effects of prostrated affairs, are not allowed to be listeners of his devout conclusions. Their prayers might ascend in a purest sincerity morning and evening, but no portion of the large salary would ever find its way in charity to the hand of the sufferer. Words are but empty symbols when hunger prostrates the flesh. Faith might wander the streets until shadowless, without without procuring fuel for shivering children, or food for their shriveled mouths. And it would be well that even the funds intended for pew rents, should be expended in alleviating such distresses as lead to prostitutions and ignominious death. It will be hard indeed to convince the serious thinker of the truth of the assertion that the present complexion of affairs comes from divine interposition. Speculations in future cities, and in produce, are essentially human affairs, and lead to inevitable results for good or bad, as the purpose may be. It seems somewhat blasphemous to attribute the folly of men to the omnipotent power. It is a style of teaching that might encourage feticism. 
It is essential to the preservation of society that moral instruction should be widely disseminated. Especially at the present time ought encouragement to be kept up. The oozing out of energy will only develop infirmities that must prostrate most fatally the power to rise superior to vicissitudes. Only show the laborer the gleam of a better day, and he will be stimulated to endure difficulties. But the gleams we have referred to are of such an intangible character, as to be neither appreciated nor believed. Material action must be had—something with more potency than word theories. There are those among us who have the means to provide against the calamities of winter, accompanied by financial depression. Let them take this matter in hand, and act as soon as possible for the relief of the needy. Standing at street corners and waiting for “confidence” to return, preaching of faith and deserved punishments, will not prevent crime and suffering. “Help one another” is the properest sermon that can be delivered. It is not surrounded with mysterious reasonings, with foggy theories, that lead the weak to mistrust their own strength, and the strong to doubt the truths of revelation. Emergencies, such as the present, prove the power of men to be self-dependent. Do then let us have some talking that will arouse might to its action, and some light that will illume the darkness daily growing more dense and threatening.
