14 August 1857
“Taking Time by the Forelock”
The example of the confusion which has resulted in the neighboring city from hasty legislation, should not be lost on the people of Brooklyn. Every winter there are dozens of schemes, small and great, affecting more or less the interests of this city, rushed into the Legislature during its brief session, and the first intimation the people affected thereby get of the existence of the project, is by learning that it has passed one or both of the houses. Now is the time to soberly discuss, through the medium of the local press and elsewhere, such measures as it is thought the welfare of the city demands to be passed by next year’s Legislature; and the verdict of the public opinion upon them can be pretty conclusively entertained, before the Legislature itself assembles. One or two cases in point will show the wisdom of this course.
Every winter, enraged by the detentions and obstacles which surround us in crossing the East river, we express our wish that a bridge or tunnel may be constructed between this city and New York. Architects, surveyors, engineers, and speculators come forward in large numbers, each having a plan which he conceives to be the only practicable one. Legislative influence is besought on behalf of these plans respectively, and some day we shall have an act passed to facilitate communication between Brooklyn and New York, enacting somebody’s plan into a law—and very likely it will be the worst plan of all which is thus endorsed. The wiser course would be to submit the various plans to careful discussion and examination now, so that if we are to have a bridge or tunnel project put through the Legislature, it may be one of which the people in general approve. 
Another case in point is that of the Brooklyn Benevolent Society’s property, none of which pays taxes, though a large portion has been leased for long terms, for business purposes. It was stated in the Common Council last year that he city loses $30,000 a year in taxes by this unfair and unreasonable exemption, and a bill to compel the payment of these taxes was forwarded to the Legislature with the endorsement of the Common Council. Owing to the lateness of the period at which the bill was forwarded, those anxious to defeat it were able to postpone its consideration until there was no longer time to act upon it. If the thing had been discussed before the meeting of the Legislature, and the public posted before hand in relation to it, there would have been so unanimous a demand for its passage that our representatives would have been able to procure its enactment without difficulty.
There is hardly a subject of local importance which will come before the next Legislature, which may not be brought before the public by its advocates now, and fully discussed. The question of a park in the Eastern District, and of having a market established here, are among those in respect to which the interests of the city will be subserved by their being fully ventilated and understood beforehand. Of course there are schemes brought before the Legislature which their authors would be sorry to have the public judgment upon; but all who honestly desire to effect amendments in our present local government ought to avail themselves of the medium of the local papers, to lay their projects before the people in time to have public opinion fully awakened in regard to them.
It is especially important that all questions which are known to be pending in this way should be well scrutinised before the time arrives for nominating candidates for Senate and Assembly; for the different parties could then select their standard bearers with especial reference to their views on questions of local interest. We hear a good deal said just now about the right of cities to govern themselves, without the imposition upon them by the Legislature of unpopular laws. Would it not be as well for county and city committees to draw their platforms with reference to local subjects, instead of reaffirming their sentiments about the tariff, the U.S. Bank, and other obsolete issues?
The Democratic party of New York city are holding meeting after meeting to protest against some of the laws passed by the last Legislature. Would it not have been wiser for them to have held meetings this time last year, to determine what laws they did want?
If citizens will not take care of their city’s interests; if they will persist in electing men to the State Legislatures on National issues, irrespective of their fitness to legislate for local wants, they cannot expect to have the State laws affecting them made to their satisfaction. Let our citizens, then, take warning by the example of New York; and to avoid having to repine at the laws which may hereafter be passed, let us take time by the forelock, and by calm discussion and inquiry, find out before the Legislature meets, what legislation we want. That being ascertained, let us select and support candidates with sole reference to their ability and willingness to procure us such legislation. If this be done, we shall hear no more of schemes of selfish speculators, intended for their own enrichment, being sprung upon us, and passed before we have time to protest against them.
