14 December 1857
“Metallic and Paper Currency”
We observe that many journals of the Democratic party are discussing the propriety of abolishing bank notes as a circulating medium; and in view of the recent financial convulsion, their arguments have no little plausibility. But as many members of the Legislature and other influential parties are largely interested in Banks, either as presidents, directors, or stockholders, we have no idea that an attempt will be seriously made to carry these views into practice. We believe, however, that if the naked question of retaining or abolishing bank paper as a medium of exchange were submitted to the public, while yet smarting under the misfortunes of the late financial derangement, a decided majority in this State would vote for the abolition of paper currency.
We are not aware that any community advanced in civilization has ever attempted to restrict its currency to metallic coinage; but the experiment is one which we should like to see tried. We are disposed to believe that it would prove eminently successful, and promotive of abundant prosperity to the nation or community which should essay it. The only tangible objection that we can perceive lies in the query whether we have coin enough to answer all the purposes and demands of business; but to this it may be replied that the adoption of an exclusively metallic currency would ensure us an abundant increase in our supply of coin.
Gold like every other article of commerce, finds it way wherever it is most needed—that is, where a greater demand exists and where a higher value can be obtained for it. Our present profuse issue of paper money enables us to dispense with much of our gold, which is therefore shipped off to Europe.
If the supply of coin in the country were found inadequate to the demands of commerce, the remedy, it seems to us, would lie in raising the nominal standard of value. It would thus become advantageous to holders of coin in other countries to send it here; and once here, being wanted, it would remain for the same reason.
It seems to us also that thus raising the standard of value would tend to encourage home manufactures, and to check our present ruinously excessive importations of foreign goods. If a gold coin which ten dollars’ worth of goods might be purchased here, would only procure nine dollars’ worth in Europe, it is clear that the purchaser would be able to make a better bargain of the home manufacturer than of the foreigner. Thus all the benefits of a Protective Tariff would be obtained for our manufacturers by the adoption of a purely metallic currency, while at the same time it would place the community beyond the reach of financial vicissitudes like that to which we have recently been exposed; and, by multiplying the amount of gold held in the country, it would ere long transfer the scepter of commercial dominion to the leading city of this continent.
