14 July 1857
“The Police and the Germans”
	The outbreaks against the new police by the Germans in New York assumed a very portentous aspect yesterday. During the whole of yesterday and last night a mob of some five or six thousand persons, armed, paraded the street, crying, “Down with the Metropolitan police.” The policemen were all obliged to keep themselves confined within the station house for fear of violence. Several of the force having been surprised and beaten by the mob, it was thought prudent to let the rioters have their own way, so no interference was offered. Late last night Commissioner Draper ordered a posse of five hundred policemen to clear the streets where the rioters were congregated. The police succeeded in performing the task without much difficulty. A slight collision took place, and several persons were arrested with fire arms in their possession. Gen. Hall had the Seventh, Eighth, and Seventy-first regiments under arms until midnight, when no further disturbance being apprehended the military were disbanded.
	Whatever might have been the proximate causes of this outbreak, there can be no question that the grand secret of the opposition of the Germans to the new police law and its representatives grows out of the apprehension that the clause in the Act which forbids the sale of lager, in common with other beverages, on Sundays, will be strictly enforced. A German minus lager on Sunday, would undergo the agonies of Tantalus; with his lager, he is exalted to the acme of mundane felicity. A law compelling Jews to eat pork could hardly be more unpalatable to the Hebrews than a law forbidding lager to the Teutons.
	We make these remarks in the hope of averting from our own city such scenes as those which disgrace New York. In the 16th ward we have a very large, and we must confess very orderly German population. Every other house, almost, is in some way or another connected with the sale of lager beer. It is understood that the police intend enforcing the Sunday prohibitory clause next Sunday; and those who know the temper of the people fear that resistance will be made and a disturbance occur, especially after the example across the river. We trust that the police and authorities will be discreet and guarded in their mode of dealing with this difficulty. Otherwise, we fear this section of the law cannot be enforced without trouble and even bloodshed.
