14 July 1857
“No Fusion”
	The Republican General Committee of this county last night refused to take measures to fuse with the Americans. Their decision, so far as we can hear, is acceptable to the great mass of the party they represent. The Republicans say that the American party here would have been practically disbanded by this time, were it not for the hope of fusion, which has enabled the leaders to hold the masses together. They also believe that to have made overtures to the Americans would have been seized upon by their enemies as a confession of weakness—a weapon which might have been wielded against them with terrible effect in future campaigns. By helping to place Americans in office, they would be giving aid and comfort to a party whom they may again have to fight on State and National issues.
	On the other hand, the arguments were not destitute of plausibility. The temptation to form a union which promised an easy victory to the fusionists was no doubt great, and the nervous anxiety of the Eagle to prevent a union showed how anxiously the Democratic party deprecated fusion.
	Meanwhile, the more sanguine of the members of the Republican party believe, that the progress of events will give them all the substantial results of fusion, without the trouble of going through the fusing process itself. The predominance of the “Dead Rabbit” element in the Democratic Councils, they think, will soon ensure a real and lasting union—because a union founded upon love of order and good government, instead of a hankering after the spoils—between all members of all parties who value the supremacy of the law, and desire the restoration of the public tranquility. Such a union only could benefit either party, or subserve the interests of the community at large.
	The Committee evidently considered that the mover of the resolutions overrated the value of the “spoils” of the city and county; they were not prepared to risk the more important advantages which attended their present control of the State, by an apparent confession of weakness in a single county.
