14 May 1857
“The Navy Yard”
There is a time for all things, we are told, and we live in hopes of seeing a time when the American people will insist on the entire separation of political intrigue from every department of the public service. Political Congressmen, and even political Assemblymen, are necessary evils; but there is no reason why politics should guide our choice of Aldermen and Assessors. The Dred Scott decision has shown us what we may get from a political judiciary; and the quarrels of the ins and outs in New York city are a never-failing remainder of the blessings we derive from a political Custom-house and Post-office. Mr. McLeod Murphy’s letter of resignation affords us a glimpse of the workings of political maneuvers in the Navy Yard. 
“My reasons for this step,” says Mr. Murphy, “are, the inadequacy of the compensation in comparison with the duties and responsibilities of the post, together with the difficulty of obtaining and retaining suitable men to do the work demanded by the government—a difficulty arising from out of the partisan character of both applicants and employees. Indeed, I may say that under the existing party organizations no master workman or mechanic can long expect to hold a position here unless he becomes a professional politician, and adopts the corrupt tactic of that class.”
We do not question the truth of this statement. There is no one in this city with the slightest knowledge of political matters, who is not aware that there are men employed in various capacities about the Navy Yard, at high salaries, who would be dear bargains to a business man at a dollar a day. The Navy Yard is in fact, as we termed it the other day, a political lazar house, in which the rejected candidates—men whose reputation is so bad that they cannot get even a renomination for aldermen—are consoled for their defeat by a fat salary and an easy berth. We were assured a day or two since, on authority gleaned in the Yard itself, by a practical man, every way competent to give an opinion on the subject, that every vessel turned out by order of the government, costs three times as much to the country as a contractor would build her for.
We do not blame the Administration party for this. Any other party, if in power, would do just the same. But we do censure, and that most strongly, the corrupt, demoralized state of public feeling which renders such atrocious mismanagement possible. If each citizen would do his part, by regarding and always speaking of this matter in its true light, no Administration would dare to employ a notoriously unfit man, or discharge a faithful and competent one, on account of politics. The only way to cure the evil, is for each citizen to probe it for himself, and then contribute his mite to an aggregated public opinion, in the face of which it would not be possible for such abuses to exist.

