14 November 1857
“Secrecy vs. Openness”
The Constitution which the embryo State of Oregon will present to Congress contains two capital features, which might be adopted with great benefit by other States—the abolition of the Grand Jury system, as a useless relic of the dark ages, and a system of open viva voce voting which will serve as a complete bar to all the frauds which are attendant on the ballot box system.
The Eagle has recently been urging, and with great propriety, the extinction of the office of Coroner, the functions of which it rightly describes as being useless wherever they are not mischievous. The Grand Jury system comes under the same category. Justice would be more speedily and efficaciously administered without than with it. It can do nothing to facilitate the detection or ensure the punishment of the guilty, while it often operates to screen them from justice, and in any event can only act as a further barrier between the offender and his doom, and as an aggravation of the delays—otherwise too numerous—in the dispensation of criminal justice. If a man be innocent, he can make the fact appear to the open Court as easily as to the secret Grand Jury; if he be guilty, the Court needs not the assistance of any secret preliminary inquisition to satisfy itself and the public of that fact.
With regard to the other point, open voting, it is the necessary complement and culmination of a registry law—a measure which the public feeling of the State has long called for, and which many members of the next Legislature are avowedly in favor of.
But if there may be reasons for preferring the ballot box to viva voce voting at the polls, there are none why open voting should not supplant the ballot box on all occasions in legislative bodies and party conventions. One great reason why bad nominations are so often made in conventions is that the delegates know that they vote under cover, and can cast their ballots for Peter Funk or anybody else they choose, however unpopular such a man may be to their constituents. The Democratic party of this Country, who had so much reason to complain this Fall of the action of their representatives in Convention, ought to insist on the delegates voting viva voce at future conventions. There is no injustice in making such a demand—for the delegates are selected to embody in their votes the wishes of those who sent them, and the latter have a right to know how the trust is fulfilled.
So it is with the filling of appointments by the Common Council. At least one appointment was made last January in defiance of the wishes of the community as well as in violation of the previous pledges of several of the members. A bargain and sale of votes was carried on under cover of the ballot, and a man appointed whom a majority of the Board had pledged themselves to vote against, and who would have had no show whatever had the votes of members been given openly.
In viva voce voting, too, may be found the early sufficient remedy for the abuses and frauds of the primary election system. There can be no question of the regularity and fairness of a man’s election as a delegate, when his credentials consist, not of a certificate of two or three inspectors, but of a complete list of the names of those who voted for and against them.
Transactions conducted openly and above-board are consonant with the genius and spirit of Republicanism, and when in addition they afford a guarantee against fraud and abuse, it should need only the suggestion of them to ensure their adoption.
