15 December 1857
“Northern and Southern Congressmen”
In the selection of the Committees of the House of Representatives it will have been observed that nearly all the chairmanships and responsible positions were assigned to Southerners. This arose, we believe, from no undue partiality on the part of Colonel Orr towards his own section, but from the fact that there were few Northern members who possessed the requisite experience to be entrusted with these important functions. A Northern member, as a general practice, is ousted from his seat by his fickle constituents as soon as he has occupied it about long enough to become familiar with his duties. In the South, on the contrary, the merits of a good representative, are recognized and rewarded by repeated re-elections. Most of the Virginia delegation have been eight years and upwards in Congress; hence they are fully posted on all the subjects which are likely to come  before them, and can make their influence felt. On the other hand there are not a dozen members of the entire North who have ever sat in the House before.
This is the great secret of the controlling influence of the South on our national councils. The South is a good master. When a member serves her faithfully she stands by him, and elects him again and again. The North, so far from this, regards a man’s having served once, is a reason why he should not serve again. Hence the North is always ill served. Her Congressmen, apprehensive that they will not be elected again, do not care to do their duty faithfully; but go in “to make hay while the suns shines,” i.e. to pocket as much spoils as possible. The secret of the South’s influence and dominations consists not so much in her rallying point of slavery, as in her employment of able representatives, and in the confidence, she bestows on them. The North can never obtain her proper share of influence in the national councils, while she sends there each year a different batch of raw, inexperienced politicians, a great deal more anxious about grinding their own axes than upholding the dignity and promoting the general welfare of the Republic.
