15 June 1857
“Alarmists”
It is odd to speculate on the reasons why people love to be frightened. The child, scarce out of the cradle, likes nothing so well as a ghost story, with its consequences of horrible dreams and terrors of the dark. The uneducated tenant of the shanty felt a melancholy pleasure in picturing the awful visitation of the dreaded comet; and no doubt half regrets that it didn’t come. Nor is the appetite for apprehension confined to youth, or to the uneducated. The New York papers live by creating false alarms, spreading panics, and inventing impending dangers and horrible probable catastrophes—by foreshadowing the evils of to-morrow, as much as by chronicling the horrors of yesterday. The Herald, which is the greatest adept in the art of drawing these fancy pictures, has the widest circulation of them all, proving how large is the demand for alarmist literature, and how well croaking pays, if it is only followed out consistently. The comet, as a subject of alarm, is “played out,” and besides, it never succeeded in alarming any body but the class who believe in fortune-telling. Some of the alarmists fell back on yellow fever; but the inquiries of Mayor Powell and Health-Officer Cleveland resolved the “dread scourge” into a case of sea-sickness. The alarmists then retreated on “the condition of the streets”—feeling convinced that if we haven’t had the yellow fever yet, we shall surely have the cholera shortly. But our health is not more endangered than our wealth. Before the cholera carries us off bodily, every one in the West is going to bankrupt through excessive speculation, and every one in the East through fast living; crops are to fail there, banks are to shut here. And all who don’t perish by the cholera will assuredly perish in civil war, in the day when Governor King leads an army of stalwart farmers to New York to depose Mayor Wood, and disperse his famous body-guard. This will be near about the history of the next few weeks, as we gather it from the predictions of the “leading journals.”
