15 June 1857
“The Board of Health”
The citizens of Brooklyn are looking with very great and reasonable apprehension at the movements of the Board of Health. They surmise that the Common Council had its reasons for reducing the appropriation to be expended by the Board from $1000, the amount sought, to $500, and for requiring all bills incurred by that body to be submitted to the municipal government. They are not pleased to learn that “Aldermen Pierson and Clarke are so much engaged in other duties as to prevent them from attendance” at the meetings of the Board.
They are aware that the law confers enormous and in many cases absolute power on this Board. They fear that power may be exercised in a reckless and indefensible manner—or that it may even be perverted, as much to the detriment of the public interest as to the personal benefit of members of the Board.
We gather from the report of their proceedings which appeared in our last number, that a resolution has been passed making it indispensable for the owner of a vessel to obtain a permit from the Board before landing any portion of its cargo. How much obstruction to commerce may result from such a resolution, can readily be conceived. We should think the Board were usurping the authority of Quarantine and Health officers, in making such a requirement. The power of granting a permit to vessels is one which should lodge in executive officers, and not in legislative bodies like the Board. Their meetings are uncertain—depending upon the formation of a quorum—while vessels may want at any hour to land their cargoes, but must wait the next meeting of the Board to obtain a permit.
This is upon the supposition that the Board discharge their duties honestly—and that the unhappy ship owners will not find in our aldermen a striking resemblance to some former harbor masters. We confess that the popular suspicion on this head is a plausible one. The title of alderman is not convertible into bread and butter; and men who have families to support, and are known to be poor, cannot afford to spend day after day, every day during the summer, in the public service, without being paid for it.
