15 October 1857
“[On the Financial Crisis]”
A cotemporary remarks as one of the beneficial results of the panic, it has checked litigation. There is very little suing being done by anybody, especially by the banks. Everybody appears inclined to take a humane look of matters and things, and suspend ugliness till there is an abatement in the pressure. The lawyers report a falling off in business of fifty per cent, during the past six weeks. Let ‘em take a “hand round” among themselves. 
This cotemporary must be exceedingly short-sighted. If there is a single class, beside the insurers, who will reap a golden harvest out of the present financial crisis, it is the lawyers. People may not be actually entering upon litigation to-day, but the loans, the bonds, the transfers, the bargains, the accommodations, the embarrassments, of the present moment are laying a rich store of lawsuits for next spring. It is of just such difficult, confused and complex transactions as are passing now in the mercantile world, that disputes arise and litigation grows. While money is abundant, and liabilities promptly met, there can be no cause for law-suits—it is in times of perplexity, when money is scarce, and people in difficulties, that their affairs get into an extricable tangle, from which nothing but the cumbrous machinery of the Courts can release them. It will take a great deal of arguing before the Courts, and a long array of speeches, pleadings, and legal processes, to settle people down after they are fairly through this financial convulsion.
There is a great deal of nonsense written about the crisis, and the papers in many cases have taken upon themselves to give very contrary and absurd predictions. It is said, and no doubt truly, that every one ought to economise, and spend as little in luxury as possible. Then again it is said, that to save the merchants and store keepers from insolvency there must be a brisk trade revived. Now if every one economises during the winter, (and it is plain that most people will, some from necessity and some from inclination) then we cannot expect the retail trade to recover at all from its present stagnation, until the mass of the people are again in work and receiving good wages.
The one great question which every one should consider is what can be done to supply our manufacturers with money, so that they may be able to pay their men and give them work and sustenance during the winter. The only loss the country will or can sustain, is in the value of the productive labor of the working classes. The Herald tables of the number of discharged foundrymen, which we quote elsewhere, show that in this single department of mechanical labor more than 3000 producers have become unwillingly idle. Reckon the profit to the country of each of these men’s weekly labor at $5, and at the cost of his support as a nonproducer at the same sum, and the loss of employment by these 3000 men is tantamount to a subtraction of $30,000 a week from the wealth of New York and Brooklyn.
If these men, then, are suffered to remain out of employ during the winter, this loss, multiplied weekly, will amount to millions. It will react on real estate. Men who earn no wages will pay no rent—while their support will swell the taxes to a fearful aggregate. Not only every philanthropist, therefore, but every man who is interested in Brooklyn real estate, should strain every nerve to supply work for mechanics this winter. It is ten thousand times better and cheaper for the city to employ them as producers, than to support them as idlers.
