16 May 1857
“Independent and Party Papers”
It is somewhat singular, that in New York and Brooklyn, where the Democratic vote is heavier in proportion than any where else in the State, that party is worst represented in the press. In New York they have scarcely an organ besides the Daily News, a paper which very few people read, and whose editorials consist mainly of lamentations over its ill-fortune, and exhortations to all good Democrats to come to its rescue and save it from utter annihilation. The Eagle, which claims to represent the Democracy in this city, sometime since replied to the dolorous complaints of the News in a highly moral and virtuous tone, acquainting it that the secret of its ill-success lay in its dependence on party patronage, instead of on public support, to be gained by its own intrinsic merits. 
Strange to say, we find this same virtuous advocate of the independence of the press, and its freedom from party control, now objurgating the Times in the fiercest terms, on the ground that it has never been the organ of any party, but has sometimes been in opposition to the Eagle, sometimes in controversy with the Star, and apparently favorable to each of the three political parties at different times. The Eagle undertakes that we shall not enter the Democratic party, and appeals to the Star to act as the Cerberus of the opposition, that we may not enter there. We are much obliged to our cotemporary for the interest he takes in our doings, and beg to assure him that we do not wish or intend to enter either party. The secret of our past history, which seems to perplex the Eagle so greatly, and the clue to our future conduct, which he regards with so much apprehension, is that we are not slavishly bound to any party, but have judged, and will continue to pronounce on, men and measures according to what we conceive to be their merits, without regard to the source from which they emanate, or the party under whose auspices they are brought forward.
It is easy to perceive that the Times is the terror of the dirty bird that roosts in Fulton Street. A hundred times has he congratulated himself and assured the public that our independence is but a sham, and that we are “Black” Republicans in disguise. In his last issue but one he boasts that he has smoked the Times out of the Democratic party, at last, thinking we suppose that now he must have all the rich pickings to himself. It is a satisfaction to us to know, however, that the Eagle is despised by every prominent Democrat whose respect is worth having. They know it is not the organ of their party, but a mere vehicle for political aggrandizement and private pelf. Whenever any one, the Mayor for instance, is assailed, however unjustly, the Eagle dares not defend him, because, by doing so, it would break up the entente cordiale in another quarter, and thus perhaps be the means of losing to it a few crumbs of patronage. In fact, “Paddy” would like to monopolize all the offices, and the Eagle wants all the advertisements and all the job printing of the county and city, and then it would be one of the most amiable and contented of birds. That’s so.
The highest and most honorable position which a journal can occupy is that of freedom from party obligations, and entire impartiality in its comments on matters of public interest. The converse of this—an abject servitude to a particular party, daring not to question the wisdom of their policy, or to say a word in praise of any measure, however laudable, which may come from another party—is a despicable and groveling stand truly, for a paper to place itself upon. But the Eagle has shown that there is a lower depth of degradation yet, and a more disreputable line of conduct, for a journal to take. There is—the Eagle instances and proves it—there is such a thing as combining the cringing and servility of a party hack with the cowardice of a cur, which feeds at his master’s table, but dares not defend him when attacked. If the Eagle were only faithful to its party obligations, we might admire its fidelity, though regretting its want of independence. As we find it, it is not only a dependent on the Democracy, but a traitor to them—not only a servile cringing beggar at the Democratic table, but a cur sneaking away from the performance of the services it has been paid to perform.
The Eagle is extensively familiar with novel writers’ characters, and illustrates its remarks on people by quoting a good many which we find in the booksellers’ libraries, besides a few which we defy it to find. We commend for its own contemplation the character of Mr. Noah Claypole, in Oliver Twist, whose “department” was, according to Master Bates, “the cuttin’ avay ‘ven there’s anything to be done, and the eatin’ all the wittles ven everything’s right.”
