16 May 1857
“About China”
We do not hesitate to say that we are rather pleased than otherwise at the prospect of the great and hitherto forbidden Empire of China being opened to the goings and comings of the civilized world. For such will probably be the effect of the serious war that that has been indicated by all our foreign accounts for months past, and by the latest accounts more than ever. It is plain that England, France, and perhaps other European nations, are determined to penetrate China.
Probably the reader has taken, (most people do,) the poor spiritless specimens of forehead-shaved, molasses-faced men, some of them crouched and begging on the sidewalks, others selling candies or poor cigars—We say probably the reader has taken these as average specimens of the Chinese people. There could not be a greater error. These are outsiders, an inferior race, coolies, helots, dregs; the “fair Chinese,” are a good sized, well shaped race of men, of prepossessing manners, polite, intelligent, friendly, and with the essential qualities of a great race.
In the interior of China are not only the most populous cities in the world, but all the growths of literature, law, mechanics, art, science, and agriculture. There is a wonderful public and private economy in China; every thing is made the most of. The population comprises one third of the whole inhabitants of the earth, being over three hundred and fifty millions. They swarm not only on the land, but on the water also. Moored by the shore, on rivers, and in sheltered nooks of bays, float acres and acres of aquatic houses, connected together, having regular streets and passages, making populous water towns, some of whose inhabitants never once in their lives put foot upon the solid land.
The Chinese are no less ingenious and “cute” than our own Yankees—at least they show as much smartness in all sorts of handicrafts, and in working wood, iron, and other materials. Living, food, dress, &c. are very cheap in China. Learning is highly esteemed, a philosopher taking precedence of the rest. A certain quaint morality pervades their books, speeches, and social conduct. Their proverbs are very fine. Some people they compare to “lanterns hung on a high pole, glittering afar off, but leaving the place immediately around them in darkness.”
The exclusive policy, hemming themselves in from other nations, is of comparatively modern date in China. In the middle ages, and indeed down to within two or three centuries, the Chinese Emperors received foreigners with cheerfulness and friendship. But they many times had reason to be disgusted with the insatiable and wolf-like greediness for gain of their Christian visitors, and the fiery and intemperate zeal of the contending missionaries and sects. They seem also to have had an instinct that the armed European was likely to be too much for them if once allowed to get a foothold.
Doubtless there was reason enough for the Chinese rulers to stand aloof from European intrusion, on any pretence. The fate of Hindustan is proof enough that where the strong heel of the Saxon is once planted, if the prize be a tempting one, his foot is not lifted till he has that prize in his grasp.
But that China must soon open her gates is certain—if not to the summons of peaceful commerce, then to the louder and sterner demands of modern artillery. Moralists and philanthropists may mourn, and not without cause, at the invasion of rights, and destruction of life, but the progress of the world goes on. The Hindu, Chinese, Tartar, Japanese, Australian, Persian, Afghanistan, Siamese, Anamese, races and territories, and the countless islands of Polynesia, will be recuperated with new blood, and supplied with all the new inventions. This will give another hue to the world, affecting not only its commerce, and all departments of its physical prosperity, but affecting also its literature, and its theories of religion, and enlarging its scope of ancient lore, which has been confined to Greece and Rome, to the detriment of equally important, and far more ample reminiscences.
The United States, who at present seem indisposed to club together with the European rulers in opening China, are perhaps the most profoundly interested in that antique world, and its future, of any nation. From the Pacific, from California, Oregon, and a dozen more mighty members to come, our confederacy looks over to these myriads of beautiful islands, and to the vast and densely populated tracts of inner, southern, and eastern Asia, as to peoples and governments with whom (strange as such a prediction sounds now,) we may in time be perhaps in closer relations, and have more commercial union, than with any other peoples or rulers elsewhere upon the earth.
