16 November 1857
“Rowdyism”
Among all the dangers which can threaten the welfare of a community, a spirit of lawlessness, of defiance of authority, is the chief. The growth of such a spirit among the people should be looked upon as one of the most melancholy and significant signs of the times, and prompt steps should be taken toward an effectual remedy where such a remedy is possible. And especially should it be borne in mind that half-way measures are worse than useless, and that desperate diseases require desperate remedies.
That such a spirit is unfortunately prevalent in our large cities, and we refer more particularly to our mammoth neighbor across the river, cannot be denied. We all know and lament the fact. The press and the pulpit abound in homilies upon it, and the necessity for its being checked if we wish to preserve intact our existence as a community. But the evil still continues to grow and so it will continue until the only remedy which will be of any avail is put in force—namely, a strict enforcement of the law, without fear or favor. 
New York streets are almost as dangerous to travel at night as if there were no city government at all, and the place were given up to the tender mercies of prowling marauders and assassins. Every corner has its gang of vile miscreants, swilling cheap rum, venting obscenity and blasphemy and looking out for victims, with villainous, hungry eyes. These young rowdies, for it is young men who commit most of the crime existing now-a-days, are confined to no particular quarter, but pervade all localities. Wherever there is a three cent grog-shop there is the inevitable cluster of young rowdies. Here is where originate half the revolting crimes or terrible tragedies that fill the morning papers with sickening details and shock all readers who have any sensibility left.
An idea has gotten possession of this class that laws were made like promises and pie crusts, for the express purpose of being broken. They consider and not unnaturally, we confess, that an arrest and trial are merely parts of a pleasant little farce not worth minding and amounting to nothing. This comfortable and pleasant conviction has been fostered for a long time by inefficiency and connivance on the part of the public officers and the stupidity of jurors, and the idea that it will ever be disturbed does not form the smallest share of their consideration. They will continue in this state, growing more and more reckless with impunity, until the time arrives when the decent part of the community, having borne all that can be borne, shall arise in their might and apply such a caustic and radical remedy to this festering sore upon the body politic as shall effect a revolution indeed. 
For a wonder, the young brute, Rodgers, who murdered John Swanstone, a few weeks since, without the slightest provocation, has been brought to trial and convicted. We fear however that even in this outrageous case the humbuggery of “clemency and mitigation” [text illegible] adequate punishment. We hope not. An example and a warning are imperatively demanded. The extreme penalty of the law should be inflicted. Let him hang!
