16 September 1857
“Lawyers and Litigation”
There are certain occupations in vogue among men which are at once useful, honorable, and necessary; and yet the too great prevalence of them would seem to indicate something rotten in the state of our much-vaunted civilization. Among the number of these we may enumerate the pursuits of undertakers, doctors, and lawyers. Were the undertakers, as a body, continually increasing in number, and yet the mass of them doing a thriving and profitable business, we should infer a corresponding increase in the weekly tables of mortality. And were the number of doctors for ever on the increase, and plenty of employment found for them all, we should have good prima facie ground for believing that the plague had broken out, or at all events that the general health of the community had sadly deteriorated.
In like manner, while fully recognising the eminent services which the legal profession, both collectively and in individual instances, have rendered to society, we cannot regard without alarm the rapid multiplication of their numbers and corresponding augmentation of their business. The numbers and prosperity of the lawyers necessarily betoken a fondness for litigiousness on the part of the community, which is anything but creditable to our moral character as a people.
A reflecting observer visiting the City Hall on Monday could not have avoided noticing its avenues and approaches thronged by the knights of the parchment and quill. They swarmed, like mosquitoes in Jersey, or like autumn leaves in Vallambrosa, all over the Park, the steps, the passages, the corridors. Dozens of them beset Judge Morris in his chambers; scores of them surrounded Judge Birdseye in the Supreme Court; and still more of them were to be found within the rails of Judge Culver’s Court; not to mention some half dozen or so who helped to swell the motley audiences of the police courts in the basement. One could never have dreamed, without beholding them, that our quiet City of Churches boasted so many disciples of Blackstone. And yet we warrant there were plenty more to be found in their offices and at their desks.
Nor were these, except in a very few instances, “briefless barristers”—gentlemen waiting, Micawber-like, for something to turn up which would afford them a chance of hurling a maiden speech at the ears of a long suffering jury. On the contrary, the great majority had one or more cases in hand, which they wished possibly to expedite—probably to postpone. Large as were their numbers, there was work enough cut out for them all. The City Court had 128, the Supreme Court 222 cases, in all of which one or more of the stars composing this galaxy of legal talent were retained, on one side or the other. The bump of combativeness must be strongly developed among our population, or a single monthly term of the Courts would not bring such a haul of fish to the legal net.
There are but few of us who have not at one time or another been drawn near enough to the Maelstrom of litigation to be able to form a rough estimate of the cost and expenses which the clients in these 350 cases will have to pay, in money and time. Let us reckon the expenditure of each party at an average of $25 a side, or $50 per suit, which is somewhat lower, we opine, than our legal friends would like to have it fixed in reality. This gives us an aggregate payment on the part of our citizens, during one month only, for the luxury of going to law, of $17,500. We doubt if the statistics of our tobacco-chewing would rise in a single month to a more handsome amount. 
And this money, be it remembered, is as utterly wasted as that which we spend in Lilienthal’s best. Indeed, our conviction is that the foul breath, the rotted teeth, and the sallow visage of the veteran tobacco chewer, are far to be preferred to the heart burnings, evil feelings, misery, and often ruin which follow in the wake of litigiousness. The financial panic through which we have recently passed has induced a very general impression that as a community we live too fast, and indulge in needless luxury; and that honor and economy alike demand retrenchment for the future. Be it so; but if there be one direction in which more than others we should retrench, it is that which we have indicated in this article. The man who builds himself a marble mansion, though he exceeds his means in its erection, and fail in consequence, has done the community some service, for he has added to the material property of the country; but he who wastes his resources in litigation has not thereby added a stiver to the country’s wealth, and in his misfortune deserves our contempt rather than our pity.
