17 December 1857
“What the Law is For”
	The laws are designed for the protection of life and property, it is presumed. Whether they exactly answer these ends, is another question, and we fancy the negative may be argued with something more than plausibility. Let any man to whom a slippery debtor owes a thousand dollars try to recover his money by process of law, and he will have reason to believe, long before his cause approaches a final conclusion, that he has a hard road to travel. 
But the law surely protects life efficiently, if not property, it may be thought. It does protect, with more than maternal solicitude, the lives of murderous rowdies and burglarious assassins—which by right are forfeited to society. The law is manifold in its tender mercies towards a scoundrel who sneaks into your room at midnight and stabs you in your bed—towards a rowdy who in his drunken freaks murders an honest citizen in the streets—towards a rascal who rifles your store in the dead of the night, and shoots down the officer of justice that detected and would have arrested him. The features of the Rhadamanthus who has with stern visage just sentenced a starving woman to the Penitentiary for stealing a loaf of bread, beam with angelic compassion upon the bravo and the midnight assassin.
There is very little exaggeration in this picture. If the proceedings in murder cases had been arranged by a convention of Dead Rabbits, or by the inmates of the States Prison, they could hardly have been more exquisitely adapted to render conviction next to impossible, and execution, even then, more than improbable. Almost insurmountable obstacles are heaped up at every stage of the proceedings. It is like hunting for a needle in a bundle of hay to get a jury who are not ineligible under the ruling of the Courts, or which does not comprise some self-styled “conscientious” opponents of the death penalty. And there is a difficulty in fixing a day when it will be convenient, forsooth, for the prisoner’s counsel to attend. And when the witnesses are on the stand, the judge as likely will not “rule out” the most material questions. If, in spite of these drawbacks, the crime is brought home to the offender, the probability is that the jury will be charged by the Court that “killing is no murder,” but only manslaughter in the ninety-ninth degree. No wonder, then, that capital convictions are “few and far between” though murders are by no means rare.
The unsophisticated spectator on hearing the sentence will imagine that the prisoner’s game is “played out.” Nothing of the sort, only the first scene of the farce has been enacted. The defendant’s counsel has some “exceptions” to make—and the chances are yet that he will make his client an “exception” to the divine rule that “whoso sheddeth man’s blood by man shall his blood be shed.” If he can find among the hundreds of questions put by the Court or District Attorney to the witnesses, a single one that was not strictly warranted by “the laws of evidence,” he can apply for a new trial upon it. No matter how immaterial the question and its answer might have been. If the reader supposes that “the laws of evidence” are designed to elicit the truth rather than to favor the guilty, he is very ignorant of legal subtleties. It is not needful in applying for a new trial, that the counsel’s “points” should point to the possibility even of the prisoner’s innocence. It is not necessary that he should show the verdict to have been against evidence—any technical flaw in the whole course of the trial will avail him as well as a complete demonstration of the falsity of the jury’s finding.
Space would fail us to recount half of the loopholes which the law provides to save the criminal from conviction, and then to shield him from his righteous doom. Enough has been mentioned to prove that, though the law does not operate very successfully to protect property, it certainly does surround life with a most efficient protection—that is to say in the case of those whose lives are justly forfeited by their crimes.
