17 November 1857
“The Unemployed”
We were sorry to see so small an attendance at the meeting for the benefit of the poor, last evening, and still more so to find so little unanimity among those who assumed the lead in debate. So far as the paucity of numbers is concerned the unfavorable condition of the weather was, doubtless, the superinducing cause, but for the disposition to cavil at the motives and impede the movements of the real working men who have the matter in charge, it would be difficult to find so plausible an excuse.
As will be seen by our report, certain parties rather noted as the victims of a cacoethes loquendi, undertook to force the committee who have the matter under consideration, to develop their plans prematurely, but the gentlemen composing the committee were, as one of them expressed it, “not to be bluffed off”—and we think they were sustained by the body of the meeting. Surely, the high-standing and unblemished character of every individual composing that committee are sufficiently well-known to the community to justify the utmost confidence in their integrity and disinterestedness. 
The meeting last night, however, should be looked upon as a mere preliminary gathering. On Wednesday evening we hope to see a large assemblage, where good speaking, and a full subscription list may be looked for. Some definite plan of action will then be proposed and when people see precisely what is to be done, the liberally disposed among them will not be backward in supplying the means wherewith to do it. 
One thing is certain. It is high time that something should be done, and any further delay will only increase the difficulty of action. Every day the distress in our midst is becoming more real and palpable and some of the cases that have come to our knowledge are really heart-rending. And, as ex-Mayor Wall remarked last night, some of the most real, grinding distress exists among that class who have hitherto been enabled to support themselves with comfort, but are now, out of employment, and absolutely without resources. The remarks of Mr. Wall in this connection were sensible and apposite, and will doubtless have their due weight with the committee and the public.
The people will have to take the matter into their own hands, and carry out with energy such plans of relief as may be decided upon. The public authorities are already overburdened. The workhouse is overcrowded and the Superintendents of the Poor are besieged daily with new applications. People are making applications constantly to the Police Justices for a commitment to the Penitentiary for the winter so that they may not starve or freeze in the public streets. Only yesterday, two men, one of whom was advanced in years and had been wealthy in his time, waited upon Justice Clarry and begged to be sent to the Penitentiary for the next four months, stating that that was their last resource. And such applications, we are informed, are common. None who have an opportunity for judging will say that there has been the slightest exaggeration used in describing the frightful distress that now exists among the unemployed, and which will continue to increase with each succeeding week unless some means of mitigation and relief are adopted at once. It is time that philanthropists, men of means, and Christian men, should fully awake to the momentous importance of this subject, and give it their close attention and generous support.
