17 October 1857
“Leading Politicans”
It is amusing to see leading politicians make up the programme of their nominations, as if the crown of political martyrdom were the only object sought. This policy is developed in marked features by the recent American and Republican judicial nominations in the second district. Not but that the [text illegible] of all parties are every way suitable to fill the office of Judges, but the insisting on the part of the fusion conventions that the long term should be given to a candidate residing in one of the Hudson river counties, and that the Brooklyn candidate should run against Judge Lott for the short term, looks very much like coursing a defeat. If the Hon. John W. Brown had been the factotum of these twin conventions, he could not have engineered better for the success of the democratic candidates. There is a local interest claiming the two Judges to be elected for the city of Brooklyn, and which, independent of all party considerations, would have elected them, had a candidate for the long term resident here been nominated. It is conceded that Judge Lott will command a heavy vote outside of his party. Identified with the history and interests of this county, and commanding the sympathies and confidence of its people, they will delight to honor his distinguished legal reputation with a seat on the bench of the Supreme Court. This public sentiment in favor of Judge Lott, indigenous to this section of the district, should have been respected by the American and Republican Judicial Conventions, instead of seeking to sacrifice their candidate residing in Brooklyn in a contest with it. It is no prejudice to Judge Birdseye, who was nominated against Judge Lott, to note the absurd policy of his political friends. It is largely to his credit when we say that his brief official term under the appointment received from Governor Clark has made him thousands of friends, to whom he was previously comparatively a stranger. His tact, industry, judicial ability and discrimination, have commanded a public confidence in the district that commends his nomination as most fit and proper. Though probably the youngest Supreme Judge in the State, yet it is well known to the profession that at the Kings County Circuit and Special terms, the amount of business disposed of in so short a time is without precedent—and we have heard no complaint even from severe legal contestants, that this business has not been done judiciously and well. King County will part with his services with reluctance. Had he been nominated for the long term, as being an incumbent in office was clearly due to him, if nominated at all, he would have received a local vote with Judge Lott that would have secured the election of both beyond a peradventure.
But the thing is done, and however seldom Judge Brown may have been seen in Brooklyn in his official capacity to relieve the judicial necessities of Kings county, our people will most surely recognize him hereafter as a smart politician, who has successfully controlled and managed the action of three antagonistic judicial conventions.
