17 September 1857
“The Firemen’s Demonstration In New-York”
The welcome home of Americus Engine Co. No. 6 passed off brilliantly. Continental Bucket Co. No. 1, and Victory Co. No. 13, of this district, and Valley Forge Engine Co. 11, of Greenpoint, joined in the demonstration, as we gave notice of their intention yesterday. The whole affair was a most gratifying one, and reflects the highest credit on all concerned.
About seven o’clock, No. 13’s company, accompanied by Turl’s Band, formed in line, marched to the house of the “Continentals” in Schols street, and escorted them to the Peck Slip Ferry. On the New York side they were received by Neptune Hose Co. No. 27, and marched along South street to Fulton, up Fulton to Broadway, and up Broadway to 4th avenue, and so on to the depot. As they passed along the avenue, they were saluted cordially by their brother companies and took their places near the middle of the line. The scene at this juncture was picturesque in the extreme. The handsome uniforms, the torches, the colored lights and the beautifully decorated machines, made it one not easily to be forgotten.
About nine o’clock the New Haven train arrived, and we believe that on no previous occasion has an engine received a warmer and more enthusiastic reception than did Americus No. 6. There was no speechifying on the occasion, but in its stead, fireworks were let off and the Empire Club gun roared a hearty welcome.
Of the procession we do not propose to speak, as the full programme has already been given by the morning press. Suffice it to say that our own companies attracted very marked attention for their handsome and fireman-like appearance, and appropriated their full share of admiring glances from the fair, whose faces crowded the windows along the route. The procession was, altogether, a splendid affair—as, indeed, 2000 appropriately uniformed and manly fellows could not have failed to constitute it.
The engine house in Henry street was brilliantly illuminated, and the streets around were crowded with people. About 11 o’clock the procession arrived, and after housing their engine, the members of No. 6 were mustered in the meeting room, where the Foreman, in some appropriate remarks, returned his thanks for the courtesy which had been manifested by all during the excursion, and then advised them of the splendid supper which was awaiting their pleasure, at the house of No. 13 Truck, in Fourth street, by the members of that company. The company then formed in line and were escorted by the members of 13 Truck to their house, where they found a most magnificently spread table awaiting them, to which, they, with the invited guests and their hosts, at once proceeded to do ample justice. After all had partaken of the good things provided, toasts and compliments were interchanged by the hosts and their guests, and this was kept up until the small hours “ayent the twal.”
After the breaking up of the line of procession, the Williamsburgh Companies, No. 13, and Continental Bucket Co. No. 1, were escorted to the house of Neptune Hose Co. No. 27, where they partook of a bountiful collation; after which they were again escorted by their entertainers to Peck Slip, where a separation took place amid vociferous cheering, &c.
On the arrival of the two companies on this side, they proceeded to 13’s house, where they arrived about one o’clock this morning. All of 13’s men then armed themselves with lanterns, and the line of march presented a glittering sight. The Bucket House was then visited, where a substantial “feed” was in waiting, which was not altogether unacceptable after a protracted and fatiguing march such as the party had gone through. Speeches were made, during the progress of the entertainment, by R.H. Keeler, Foreman of the Bucket Co., Mr. Thos. Betts of No. 13, Mr. Underwood and others. The speaking and et caeteras were kept up till a late, or rather early, hour, and finally broke up with any quantity of cheering, not forgetting the “Tiger.”
