17 September 1857
“Minie vs. Musket”
Often, in the pursuit of novelty and the gratification of the innate love of experiment which characterizes the age, a step is made the wrong direction. Such has been the case in the changes which are being effected in arming our State Militia. Owing to the almost universal adoption of the Minie Rifle, and other weapons of very long range, by the armies of Europe, a mania has arisen among our militia regiments for being armed with the Minie, and the good old-fashioned musket has fallen into unmerited disrepute.
But in Europe it is the standing armies destined solely for field warfare, who are supplied with the Minie; the militia and other forces designed for suppressing disorders at home still carry the musket. Of the descriptions of service in which our State militia are liable to be employed, that of war with a foreign foe is happily the most infrequent. Beyond the ordinary exercises they have little else to do than assist in quelling an occasional street disturbance; and for this use the Minie rifle is exceedingly ill-adapted.
At the Astor-place riots, the ordinary musket was used by the militia; and it was then found that its fault was not that of insufficient range, but of carrying too far. Placed for the most part in comparatively unskillful hands, the muskets did more execution among peaceable citizens at a distance than among the rioters in their immediate proximity. A large proportion of the shots lodged themselves at the level of the second story of the adjacent houses, instead of sweeping the street as it was intended they should. Were a regiment armed with the Minie rifle called on to perform similar service now, the probability is that still more execution would be done among distant spectators, and still less among the actual rioters. Had the Seventh Regiment had occasion to use their Minie rifles during the riots recently instigated by Fernando Wood in New York, this fact would doubtless have been practically made apparent.
It is well that the State should own an adequate stand of Minies, to be placed in the hands of the militia in the event of their being called on to take a share in actual warfare. But for the suppression of a street emeute the Minie is altogether unsuited; and the old-fashioned musket, which is far more effective in such service, should therefore continue to be the standing arm of the regiments of militia.
We are not entirely convinced that the Minie deserves all the praises which have been so lavishly heaped upon it as a field arm; but, be this as it may, we are satisfied that it is unfit for service in a hand-to-hand fight with street rioters.

