18 December 1857
“The Assessment Levy”
We have often drawn attention to the utter defectiveness and inefficiency of the present mode of assessing taxes; and we do so again in the hope that some of our representatives about to assemble at Albany will endeavor to discover a remedy. No mere alterations of detail, like those suggested in the bill forwarded to Albany last year by the Common Council of this city, will be sufficient; the present system is radically wrong, and should be altogether done away with.
Under it the State tax is levied unjustly and unequally. Salt meadows and undrained bogs in the city of Brooklyn are taxed in enormous disproportion to the fertile farms of the agricultural portion of the State. Hence we contribute far more than just our share to the support of the State government, to the enlargement of the Canals, and all the other State expenses. We pay some $60,000 a year to the School Fund, over and above what we receive therefrom. We not only bear the whole expense of educating our own children, but assist largely in defraying that of our neighbors in the interior. 
And as the farmers of the interior procure their estates to be valued lower, relatively, than property in the cities, so the county portion of the County of Kings still further enhances the disproportion by rating valuable farms in the county towns worth almost as much as an equal area of vacant city lots, at a mere nominal standard, instead of anything like their actual worth.
Then again variations occur in the valuations of different wards in the city, which still further aggravate the burdens some are called on to bear. When a street like Grand, for instance, divides two or more wards, stores and houses of equal size and value are often rated far higher on the one side than the other.
Then we have blunders of all sorts occurring in that chaotic locality, the Assessor’s office. The Assessor of the 13th ward has rendered signal benefit to the owners of real estate, both by assessing personal property hitherto untaxed, and reducing the valuation below the exorbitantly high rate affixed by his predecessors. But recently he made a mistake in transferring his figures from his blotter to the Tax Book, by which the valuation of the lot of E.M. Gregory was put down at $27,000, instead of $2,700. The taxes on $27,000 is $626,13. The difference between the taxes on a valuation of $27,000 and $2,700 will be a lien on the 13th ward, and charged in next year’s taxes, and will be about $550. Nor is this a solitary instance. The assessor of the 17th ward assessed a salt marsh at $5000 when it should have been $500; and an owner of property in the 18th ward found his property set down at $25,000 instead of $8000.
It is easier to point out defects in the present system than to suggest their remedy. It seems clear that there ought to be a Board of Assessors for the county, with a permanent surveyors’ staff to report an equal and equitable valuation of all the real estate, and to draw accurate and intelligible maps, instead of the abortions which are used now, and which fill the tax books with errors. There should also be provision for equalizing the valuations throughout the whole State, and for levying tax more stringently on personal property. Will some of our representatives take the subject in hand?
