18 June 1857
“Is Brooklyn To Take Part in the Fight?”
Those of the Fernando Wood faction who hang out in Brooklyn, (are we to count Mayor Powell on the list?) show some disposition to get up a row here, as a counterpart of the disgraceful riots in New York City. Something like the insanity which the heathen motto attributed to those whom the gods had concluded to destroy, seems now to pervade the “head men” of a once powerful and respectable party. A cool person, with his senses about him, is quite unable to account for the furious course of Mayors, Aldermen, and officials generally—elected, as hitherto supposed, to show an example of decorum and loyalty, not lawlessness and defiance.
When Andrew Jackson, in the full panoply of his warlike conquest at New Orleans, surrounded with the halo of national adoration, and with a victorious army at his back, was sternly summoned by an inferior Judge to appear before his bar, and answer for contempt of court, what did he do?
Although the Judge, after much inquiry, could but just find one officer to serve his warrant, Andrew Jackson, the moment it was presented to him, withdrew himself from all his military force, and appeared respectfully in court, without the least demur, He submitted to the authority of the Judiciary, was fined $1000, and paid it, with an apology to the Judge.
Now, we have a different sort of men in our high places. Their own passions are their counselors, and the law is made the sport of partisan caucuses. 
So far, Brooklyn has not been the scene of any violent collision, or extreme dispute, under the New Police Law; nor is there the least need that it should be. Still, it seems there are those among us who would like nothing better than to push the quarrel to the verge of a most exacerbated fight. Much depends upon the moderation and common sense of the Mayor—Mr. Powell. If he allows himself to be made the creature of the New York faction and their Brooklyn abettors, to the point of repeating here the disgraceful scenes of the last few days in the park, N.Y., he will stain his name with opprobium, as long as it remains upon the municipal records.
