18 May 1857
“The City Railroad Yesterday”
If proof were needed of the demand for City Railroad accommodation on Sunday between the different and distant sections that comprise Brooklyn, such proof was furnished yesterday. Partially through the morning, and to an immense extent through the afternoon and evening, the very best class of our inhabitants, (we mean of course the mechanics, all working men, working women, and young persons,) were on their way, in the cars, to and from South Brooklyn, Greenwood, Bedford, New Brooklyn, Greenpoint, Williamsburgh, Bushwick, East Brooklyn, &c. Many of the cars were crowded to suffocation—people on the front and hind platforms, thick as bees swarming.
But we have seriously to say to the Railroad Directors, that such accommodations as those of yesterday are entirely inefficient to satisfy the public.
They fail both in the hours of commencement and cessation, and in the frequency of running. Stopping the cars at half-past nine at night won’t do at all. The two hours succeeding that period are the very hours when most persons fetch up on their way home—families who have been out visiting, &c. We have heard many bitter complaints this morning from people who were “left,” and had to foot it over one, two or three miles. Let the cars by all means run till twelve o’clock, and let them do it next Sunday.
We think also that the intermission of half an hour between the cars, is too long. Yesterday afternoon, for several hours, full as many people were put to the necessity of walking, as were carried by the cars, while they rolled by so smotheringly full. Fortunately it was not a warm day, otherwise the crowd would have been insufferable.
Altogether, we think (which we believe to be the quite unanimous public judgment) that the Directors of the Brooklyn City Railroads have so far behaved in the most petty and derelict manner, as far as Sunday traveling accommodation for the citizens is concerned. All they have done, has been done in the grudging and acrid spirit of a set of puritanical village deacons, two hundred years ago, altogether unworthy the needs of modern times in the third city of the United States—a city of two hundred thousand people—a city of more “magnificent distances” than the national capital itself.
We take occasion to repeat our previously expressed conviction, in which we are more and more confirmed every day, that the vital interest and individual and public convenience of all sections of Brooklyn require the unintermitted running of the cars at all times of the night and day, with a whole-souled reference to the people’s accommodation—because the five-cent City Railroads are a People’s Institution! Once let it be understood that the cars run continually, and all persons will make their arrangements in accordance; and we have no doubt it would more than pay, in a very short time. At night, the half-hour intermissions would answer. And there is quite as much need that the cars should run, as that the ferry-boats should. After once an improvement of this sort is fairly under way, people wonder how they ever did without it. Who now would do without the continual running of the ferries?
Additional.—This morning we called at the office of the City Railroad Company with a view to ascertain something in reference to the receipts of yesterday as compared with other days. We soon learned however that only thirty cars were running yesterday, whereas eighty is the usual number in operation on week days, and therefore that no comparison could justly be instituted. The following were the receipts on the thirty cars, 22 regular and 8 extra:
Fulton Avenue	8 cars-----$172.16
Greenwood	9 cars-----$161.44
Greenpoint	8 cars-----$152.15
Myrtle Avenue	5 cars-----$122.34
		--------------
	Total		$608.09
Being an average of above $20 per car, for less than a whole day’s work. 
Hardly a modicum of the amount of travel anxions to be accommodated with seats could find them, or even a standing place on the cars. Had the full number been in operation they would still have been crowded. At special hours, such as when Rev. Mr. Beecher’s church was dismissed, the rush was tremendous, but in vain, with the exception of the few lucky ones who succeeded in securing a foothold on the long wished for conveyances. The majority of the company express their entire satisfaction at the result of their experiment, and next Sunday will put at least twenty cars on each line.
