18 September 1857
“State and County Politics”
XX all the XX political parties have already made their nominations for the State offices to be filled at the ensuing election; it is not, therefore, premature to comment on the present aspect and prospects of the political world. Very few of the members of either of the two parties referred to will question the assertion, that the respective tickets which have been placed before the public, were not expected to succeed, even by the Conventions by which they were selected. The Democratic ticket would have been graced by more weighty names, and much harder fights would have been made by the friends of the defeated candidates for nomination, if there had been any strong probability of success. As for the American Convention, its speakers did not profess to anticipate triumph; their remarks and the action of their body were alike directed to the single object of failing with dignity and without dishonor.
It is generally conceded, in fact if not in word, that the Republicans will again carry the State—though of course the most sanguine members of that party do not expect to pull anything like the vote of last fall. The popularity of Fremont called forth the votes of many who will not approach the polls this fall. Nevertheless, the Republican ascendancy in the State is secure, notwithstanding the threats of defection which have been heard from some of the organs of the free soil democracy. It is not likely that these will eventuate in more than a struggle between candidates for the different nominations—to influence which probably they were penned. But in Kings County, matters assume a very different aspect. The Democrats have so large a plurality in a three-cornered fight that even if Mr. Taylor succeeds in bringing about a split from the main body, there would be enough left to assure triumph to the party. The vote of Kings County may safely be calculated upon for the Democratic State ticket.
With regard to the local officers to be elected, the prospect is much the same. The Democrats may possibly be beaten in the 2nd Senatorial District, but they may remain “unterrified” as to the result in the 3d. The Assembly Districts were arranged, as Supervisor Bleecker frankly remarked on presenting them, “in order to make them as nearly as possible all Democratic”—and we have no doubt the Supervisor will have the gratification of finding that he has carried out his intentions with as much effectiveness as good will.
A great deal has been said about the practicability of a union or compromise between the Republicans and American parties in respect to the local offices; and the advocates of this step are convinced that it would result in giving the fusion party a majority of the Assemblymen. But why, we may ask, does not some one suggest a fusion between the Republicans and Democrats or, still more plausibly, between the Americans and the Democrats? Judging the American leaders by their professions, there is nothing which should prevent their joining the Republican party, but judging them by their acts, they have less antipathy to Democracy than to Republicanism. They profess to be opposed to the extension of slavery; they claim that nine-tenths of the Republican masses are “American at heart”—and they know that there are as few uneducated “foreigners” in the Republican ranks as in their own. But yet they exhibit a hatred of the Republican party, compared with the virulence of which the antagonism of the Democrats seems courteous and chivalrous. Not to mention the campaign of last year, we find ample proof of our assertion in the report of the late American Convention. The following doggerel lines, as execrable in composition as violent in their denunciation of Republicanism, were greeted by the Convention with applause—
“Beneath this sketch
There lies the wretch
The Black Republican party most bad;
And when it died,
Tax payers cried.
We’re glad—we’re glad—we’re glad
It filled the earth
With its foul breath
With slanders, lies, bad gin and rum,
And when it died
The devil cried
Come, friends, come”

And the resolutions, prepared by our editorial neighbor of the Star, breathe as deep a hostility to that party as had been expressed by the Democratic Convention. The only difference is, that the Democrats have consistently and no doubt sincerely opposed the recent legislation from the first; whereas the American party, from the very inception of these laws, has been—in the persons of its leaders—to the full as deeply concerned in their enactment and as fully responsible for their propriety as the Republicans. American leaders helped to draw up the bills, their votes aided to pass them, they undertook to help execute and sustain them. To denounce those laws now, exhibits in the case of Fernando Wood, an unwavering consistency; in the case of Erastus Brooks, it discloses a hypocritical perfidy.

Honest members of the American party, who, conscious that there is little practical difference between their principles and those of the Republicans, are anxious for a union, may rest assured that no men who follow such leaders as Erastus Brooks can ever induce Republicans to rely on their good faith. The resolutions of the American convention make it impossible for the Republicans of Kings or any other county either to proffer or entertain terms of union. Then why cry “Peace, peace,” as some continually do, “when there is no peace!”
