18 September 1857
“Thankful For Small Favors”
Of all nations on the face of the earth, none who call themselves civilized and enlightened are so wedded to what John Bull calls conservatism, and we call a blind and stupid reverence for tradition, as the English.
The liberal portion of the English press are rejoicing over what they esteem a great concession to common sense and popular rights, viz., the passage, after a protracted and persevering opposition, of the new Divorce Bill. Until recently, the sole jurisdiction for granting divorces for matter arising subsequent to the marriage, was vested in the Superior Court of the Kingdom, the House of Lords, and a divorce could only be obtained by a long and painful process. First an action had to be brought by the husband in one of the Courts of law against the adulterer, and damages obtained therein and a separation from bed and board granted by some ecclesiastical court. An application to Parliament was next in order and a bill of divorce would be granted. It will be readily perceived that this circumlocutionary process placed the matter nearly, if not quite, beyond the reach of persons unaided by wealth.
The new law provides for the formation of a court by the title of the Court of Marriage and Divorce, with a Chief Officer to be called the Judge Ordinary, whose associates are the Chancellor, Chief Justices, Chief Baron and Judge of Probates. The party applying for divorce comes before the court by petition, and may ask for separation only in case of adultery, cruelty or causeless desertion for two years. The widest difference is made in the treatment of man and wife. The husband may have a divorce where the wife has been unfaithful, but a similar offence on the part of the husband leaves the wife without remedy—she can neither ask nor obtain a divorce unless her offending partner has deserted her for two years and lived in adultery during that period.
This is the law on which even the London Dispatch, the organ of the English liberals and radicals, heartily congratulates the nation upon, as an evidence of enlightened progress. Truly, the English are a patient and long suffering nationality and exceedingly grateful for small concessions.
