19 December 1857
“Police Matters”
The next Legislature consists of a nearly equal proportion of Democrats and Republicans—so that the few “Americans” hold the balance of power. The Republican papers appear to think that the support of these last can only be obtained by compromises and sacrifices greater than the value of their adhesion; and consequently are disposed to take their places as a minority, leaving the responsibility of a general legislation in the House to their opponents, and relying on the Governor’s veto power, and their strength in the Senate, to prevent any measures which may be very obnoxious to them from passing.
Now, the Democratic party—at least the delegates from the “district”—are pledged to repeal the Metropolitan Police Act, or else to revise it with no friendly hand. On this question, at least, Democratic members speak with great confidence of being able to muster a majority in both houses. They contend, that with a united delegation both from Brooklyn and New York protesting the law, and that delegation, moreover, elected at polls supervised by this very police, no fair-minded legislator, even of the opposite party, who recognises the right of communities to regulate as far as practicable their own affairs, can resist a movement for the repeal or radical emendation of the law.
We take it for granted, therefore, not only that an onslaught will be made on the law, but that many features of it will be subjected to essential modification. We only hope, that in eliminating the objectionable features which the law undoubtedly contains—such for instance as the high rate of pay—care will be taken to preserve the many admirable ones which are also comprised in it.
The standard of efficiency should not on any account be lowered. We are in no danger of getting too good men on the police—and there is considerable chance of our getting unfit ones, if the standard of physical or intellectual requirements is in any shape relaxed. The formation of a benefit fund, also, is an excellent idea, which the department cannot afford to dispense with. The principle of selecting the superior officers of the force from the staff itself, should be maintained, as affording an incentive to worthy and aspiring men to remain in the force and identify themselves with it for life.
The weak point in the new system is that it did not sufficiently divorce the department from politics. Nevertheless, if any subsequent alterations give us another step in this right direction, as decided as that which was taken last spring, we shall be content.
