19 December 1857
“The Ferries”
The movement of the South Tenth street ferry, in reducing the fare to one cent, has evoked very different comments from the press. It is regarded on the one hand as a laudable example, by which the rest of the ferry companies may profit, and on the other as a bold attempt, on the part of the arch speculator, George Law, to break down the other Williamsburgh ferries, and get control of them, or compel them to buy him off.
It is yet a problem whether one cent fare can be expected to pay from Williamsburgh to New York.  The utmost that has ever been asked, even at Fulton Ferry, where the distance is so much shorter, and the traffic so much greater, has been, two cents, with commutation, or a uniform one cent fare without commutation. We are disposed to think, with the Courier and Enquirer, that two cent fares, and commutation at $8 or $10, are cheap enough in all conscience for a two mile ride in well fitted boats.
It must not be forgotten that there is a point below which reduction of fares is an injury to the public. If the company do not obtain receipts enough to keep their boats and ferry houses in good order, renew their machinery whenever required, and so forth, the public lose in safety what they gain in cash. The South 10th street ferry company, with their new boats, do not at present feel in need of any outlay for repairs; but the time will soon come when they may have to raise their fare to meet this outlay. It is cheaper to pay two cents, and cross the river without delay, and with speed and safety, than to pay one cent, wait a long time for a boat, and run great risk of accidents after all.
The South 10th street company deserve credit for the accommodation they have rendered the public, not only in adding to the number of boats plying between this city and New York, but in stirring up the Peck Slip company to a livelier sense of its duties to the community. We shall wait with interest to see whether the rate of one cent proves remunerative or not, but in any case the three cent imposition is doomed; for after crossing for one cent people will never again be content to pay more than two.
The New York Aldermen, it appears, have resolved to administer a last blow to the Union Ferry Company before quitting office. Alderman Steers, having affected the removal of the steamboat landings from Peck slip up town, proposes to devote the vacant slip to a ferry to foot of Fulton street, Brooklyn. The N.Y. Board will hardly be likely to deal in earnest with a matter of this kind, so shortly before their term expires; the probabilities are that the promoters only design to make a last “strike” before leaving office, and have selected the Union Company as their victims.
We doubt if the people want a rival ferry established. There are too many ferries already, so that the scantily patronised ones absorb the proceeds of the more frequented. But for this, a one cent fare would pay handsomely at Fulton Ferry. Dividing the patronage of that ferry would place it beyond the power of the proprietors to afford cheap ferriage. 
The whole subject will doubtless come before the Legislature, and we shall be surprised if Mr. Beach, or some other of the delegation, does not present a bill regulating the whole of the East River ferries, making a commutation imperative, limiting the amount of profit, and compelling the expenditure of all the earnings of each ferry, over and above the prescribed percentage of profits, upon machinery, boats, stock, &c., so as to render communication between the cities not only cheap, but safe and expeditious in all seasons of the year.
