19 November 1857
“Local News”
Owing to the length at which we report the meeting in aid of the Poor last night, and the charge of Judge Birdseye this morning, we are compelled to omit editorial remarks, and to sum up all other local news in a single paragraph.
In the City Court yesterday a seduction case, Herbet vs. McCarthy, landlord of the Hotel on Prospect Hill, was tried and a verdict for the amount claimed, $1,000, was given this morning.—In the Sessions, Peter Hager, the cobbler was administered laudanum to a child in the 16th ward, was acquitted of manslaughter.—James McGee, 14 Franklin Place, was killed by falling from his wagon yesterday.—Bridget Boyle, a grocery keeper in Plymouth street, was fined $5 by Justice Cornwell for assaulting a neighbor of hers.—A child of Harrison Browne, 567 Columbia street, was burned to death by its clothes taking fire in its mother’s absence.—A man named John Wittey, residing at 94 Jay street, committed suicide yesterday afternoon, by cutting his throat with a razor.
DELIBERATE INFANTCIDE—MYSTERIOUS CASE—A small frame house stands on the corner of Seven have. And Ninth street, in the 8th ward, Gowanus. About 11 o’clock yesterday morning two persons who had thoughts of renting the house, procured the key from the owner, and went to inspect the premises. On getting to the door, they were surprised to notice the tracks of a wagon right up to the door. On entering they found that someone had been there shortly before—probably during the previous night. There were traces of dirt and blood on various parts of the floor. Searching further, they discovered in an inner room the body of a child, apparently only a day old. A stick lay near the body, on which were marks of blood. The child’s body was marked, as if it had never been washed or clothed. Near it was the afterbirth, and it was apparent that the delivery must have taken place in the house. The police were notified, and Capt. Combs repaired to the spot. After making a careful examination, he came to the conclusion, from all the indications he could observe, that the mother of the child had been driven in a wagon to the spot by some man—probably her seducer; that she had been delivered by the aid of this man, while lying on the floor; that an attempt had been made to kill the child by strangulation—of which marks appeared round the neck. The child appears then to have cried out, so that the murderer, getting alarmed, took up the stick and beat it to death by striking it on the head, on which the marks of blows are clearly visible. Owing to the unskillful manner in which the accouchement was conducted, the blood stains were profusely scattered over the floor; and these an attempt has evidently been made to conceal, by fetching dirt from the outside, which has been scattered over them. The woman and her accomplice must then have departed in the vehicle as they came. The house is a quarter of a mile from any other habitation, and consequently the police have not yet been able to hear of any vehicle having been seen in the vicinity on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning. They however notified Coroner Bennett, by whom an inquest will be held.
