19 October 1857
“The Moral of the Remsen Street Accident”
The lamentable accident which we recorded on [text illegible], and of which further particulars are given in to-day’s edition, supplies another [text illegible] which the press often pitches, though apparently with little avail, to the general public. It affords another instance of the recklessness with which we imperil human life, when by the expenditure of a little trouble and extra expense safety may be assured. Here were men working in a perpendicular excavation, surrounded by houses whose foundations they had partially undermined—a situation, one would think, in which the mere instinct of self-preservation would have taught them to take precautions against the calamity which has overtaken them, of being buried alive in the ruins of their own workmanship. Yet, trusting to “luck,” and probably comforting themselves with the idea that as they had never yet been entombed alive they would not be now, they neglected to shore up the sides of the excavation, and thus a catastrophe fatal to several of their numbers was occasioned.
We do not so much blame the men thus actually risking their lives, nor even the contractor, who has atoned with his life for his omission to take the necessary precautions to avert accident. Rather would we censure the authorities for permitting works to be carried on in such a manner as to endanger the health or lives of the parties concerned. As citizens of a Republic, we have a natural repugnance to the interference of the governing powers in matters affecting our ordinary business, further than may be considered absolutely necessary; and hence the law are by no means so stringent as they should be in respect to guarding the lives of the public from accidents arising from negligence or recklessness. To this may be ascribed many of the casualties which the press from time to time have to record. We know of many houses, both in this city and in New York, which are in evident and imminent danger of falling; yet the municipal authorities do not interfere, acting on the idea that it is people’s own fault if they expose themselves to risk of injury or loss of life. We see daily on the East River steamboats racing at full speed immediately alongside each other, violating the law, which forbids them to approach within a certain distance of one another. We have to record every few days accidents arising from collisions between ferry boats, caused by illnatured rivalry or imprudent emulation of pilots. We hear often of accidents in factories, caused by exposed trap-doors or unfenced machinery. Yet in all these cases, and many others which are fruitfully productive of injury to life and limb, and in which the existence of individual members of the community is daily placed in jeopardy, there is either no law to protect, or no efficient execution of the law, to prevent the most dreadful catastrophes.
The only true and adequate corrective of these evils consists in the awakening public attention in regard to the sacredness of human life, and the duty of every man or body of men so to carry on business that they shall endanger neither their own lives or those of their employees or others. Meanwhile a partial remedy may be found in the section of our Courts and juries, awarding exemplary damages in all cases brought before them, where carelessness on the part of owners of property or employers of labor can be clearly proved. A case of this kind came before the Supreme Court in this city not long since, in which the widow of a man employed by the Kerosene Company of Newtown recovered, if we mistake not, the large sum of five thousand dollars as compensation for the loss of her husband, who had been killed by an explosion, which she satisfied the jury was caused by circumstances under the control of the company, and which might have been averted had proper precautions been taken. A few such verdicts as the one referred to would awaken the attention of all employers to the fact that when they engage men to labor for them in any capacity they are bound, while availing themselves of their workmen’s services, to guarantee to them, by the adoption of all reasonable precautions, as great a measure of safety as the nature of the occupation permits of.
