2 December 1857
“The New York Election”
As we inferred from appearances yesterday, the charter election has resulted in a small majority for Tiemann. Immense crowds were assembled around the newspaper offices and the head quarters of the different parties, to learn the news. At Tammany Hall it was deemed impossible that Wood could be defeated, and several of the orators of the party congratulated the audience in the old wigwam, in advance, upon their triumph. Prominent among these speakers were Brooklyn men—in fact it looked as if the New York democratic leaders had given up Fernando, and that his friends had had to send over the river for substitutes for them.
Senator-elect F.B. Spinola made a brief speech denouncing Dan Sickles, and stating that he occupied the latter’s seat in the Senate, but would die rather than follow his example. 
Judge Morris and ex-Ald. Mulligan, of this city, were also called on, but declined to speak. There was also a young gentleman introduced by the name of “Brooklyn Mac,” who experienced a rather uncivil reception at the hands of the excited Democracy. He commenced with a profusion of bows, and then, in a brogue of the most refreshing character said, that he thanked the Democracy of Tammany Hall. He came from the glorious stronghold of Democracy, Kings County.
A voice “You be d---d.”
Mac trusted that he would be listened to with the attention which always characterized a Democratic audience.
A voice “No joking, Mac.”
He trusted that the Federal officers who dared to support Tiemann would be removed by the President, (cheers,) for they were traitors to the Democratic party.
The confusion at this time became so great that the eloquence of “Brooklyn Mac” was entirely lost, though his mouth was kept moving, and his arms flying, to the imminent danger of those near him. At length he was roughly hauled from the stand, and retired.
Meanwhile returns were coming in which convinced even the most sanguine that the star of Fernando had paled. The last to credit the fact of his defeat, it is stated, was Mr. Wood himself.
Mr. Tiemann and several friends made speeches from the balcony of Thorp’s Hotel. Mr. T. frankly confessed that he was no orator, and in fact as much as could be inferred from his remarks. He thanked the Herald for saying that he made good paint, and added “I hope I shall make as good a Mayor as I make paint.” “I would have been prouder to have been defeated with the votes I have received to day than to have been elected by the votes which my opponent received.”
Enormous sums have doubtless been expended on both sides in this election. The profusion of banners and the exceeding heavy vote attest this. It is said that Fernando Wood staked his entire fortune—already reduced by his lavish expenditures in the accomplishment of political objects, on this one throw of the dice; and that, having lost, he is a ruined man pecuniarily as well as politically.
Besides defeating the Mayor, the opposition have elected half the Supervisors, a majority of the Aldermen and probably half of the Councilmen.
