2 December 1857
“Central American Affairs”
The last number of Blackwood’s Magazine, (republished by Messrs. L. Scott & Co., 54 Gold st., N.Y.,) contains a paper entitled, “Notes on the Isthmus of Panama,” embodying a large amount of valuable information, obtained by the writer during a recent tour in Central America.
In Panama, the writer states, the ordinary relative positions of whites and blacks are reversed. The Judge and most of the principal authorities of the place are black, and they mete out less justice to a white man than the worst specimen of a slave–owner would to one of their own brethren. Political parties in Panama and indeed in the whole State are divided into the whites and blacks, and the present Governor of the town is a nominee of the latter.
After further describing this state of society and its evils, the writer makes a defence of filibusterism which his fellows of the British press may read with benefit:
[extract omitted]
The writer disbelieves in any desire, either on the part of the United States or England, to acquire territory in Central America; but thinks the interest of each requires the control of a transit route. The English government he advises to purchase the Panama Railway, and the United States to confine themselves to the Honduras, Tehuantepec or the Nicaraguan routes, either of which will be better for American purposes than that of Panama.
The author believes, and gives his reasons at length for the opinion, that a ship canal between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, across the isthmus at its narrowest point, is perfectly practicable—and that a depression exists in the Cordilleras through which the waters of the two oceans do now communicate. This information he professes to have gleaned from the Darien Indians, who are accustomed to transport canoes across at the point referred to.
The Magazine contains, besides the article above sketched, Part 6 of Bulwer Lytton’s “What will you do with it?” No. 3 of “Scenes in Clerical Life,” and papers on “Military Education,” “Cambria and Cottonopolis,” “A few words from the Khyber,” and “The Company’s Raj.”
