2 June 1857
“Hot Weather Philosophy”
A few remarks may not be inopportune for the hot weather that is upon us—to aid in the great work of keeping cool and comfortable. For we have a theory that if one only proceeds the right way to work, he can get along just about as well, and see every bit as much pleasure, at his domicile in town, as by going “off in the country for a few days,” or for a few weeks, as the case may be.
The diet is always to be somewhat lighter in hot weather than in cold. Very hearty meals stimulate too much for June, July, and August; reserve them for December, January, and February. Eat meat only at one meal in the day—unless you are compelled to take just what you can get. Then exercise judgment, and be not too particular.
The bath is the great institution for hot weather. He or she who does not bathe during the summer months, misses the great luxury of the time. They who do, (other things being equal,) can spend their days and nights in comparative comfort. How delicious is morning lavation, before breakfast, giving a zest to the morning food! How soothing and sweet the evening souse in the river, or the swimming bath, or along the sea-shore! What a night’s rest, afterward!
The clothes of persons in summer is generally too much in the starched-goods and muslin line. While the days here are hot, the nights, with a few sweaty exceptions, are rather cool. Thus the clothes should have reference to the night air also—especially as most city residents live late into it, and are “out” pretty well toward midnight. Those are the times when arise many diseases of the throat, chest, lungs, joints, &c. that make after life miserable, and invite Death before he would think of coming of his own accord.
The feelings of coolness and ease, as affected by dress, do not come so much from having garments of thin stuffs, as through other reasons. A loose style of dress, nothing to bind one, no crimping or fashionable squeezing—will generally give the desired result in summer. As to the thin stuffs aforesaid, they are more appropriate in the Carolinas, and in Cuba and Mexico; but hardly for our region of coolish nights, unless the wearer then carries an additional outer-rig besides.
The state of the mentality has much to do with comfort, at any time, and markedly during hot weather. Are you irritable? Do you borrow care? Will you be envious, greedy, jealous, or “hateful” in any way? Wretched individual! There is no hope for you—you will have to burn! Not even the greatest care in diet, cleanliness, dress, or any thing else, can save you.
