2 November 1857
“Political”
In this, the last number of the Times which we shall commit to press before the public will have begun to record its verdict on the conduct of its State affairs, our readers will naturally look for some prognostications as to the result. For though such predictions are as often falsified as realised, there is yet a natural tendency in the minds of writers for the press to speculate on the future, even when the lapse of a few hours will render that certain which is now problematical and doubtful.
With regard to the State at large, we are of opinion that all the ink which has been shed, and breath wasted, in denunciations of the “tyrannical assumptions of the Black Republican Legislature,” will have been thrown away—and that—though the Democrats may on this cry augment their votes in the “Metropolitan Police District” itself—yet that to the minds of the country voters throughout the State the same necessity will be apparent for striking a blow for Freedom, as influenced them last fall. In this connection, the reported disapproval by the Government of Gov. Walker’s rejection of fraudulent returns, will add some thousands to the Republican vote to-morrow in New York State.
With regard to our local affairs, the centre of interest is the contest for the Shrievalty. Both candidates stand before the public on their merits, despite the attempt of the Eagle to enclose the matter in a spider’s web of legal quibbles; and it is a fact creditable to the county at large, and especially to Messrs. Remsen and Stryker themselves, that not a breath of slander has been uttered, nor a solitary word of personal abuse or vilification, against the character of either. Seldom has a contest lain between two more unexceptionable men, and never perhaps has there been one conducted in a more gentlemanly way, or with more freedom from rancor.
The combined vote of the two branches of the fusion last fall numbered some twenty-five hundred over that of the Democrats; and so far the odds were in favor of that ticket; but there is no use in disguising the fact that the fusion is far from being thorough and complete, and a considerable number of both parties to the bargain will take the liberty of exercising their personal preference in casting their ballots. What has happened in the 6th Assembly District, shows that despite the formal shake of hands, there lingers a spirit of mutual antipathy in the breasts of the ultras of both branches of the fusion.
Abijah Mann will be cut pretty extensively, but probably not enough to outweigh the large fusion majority of the 2nd district. Frank Spinola in the 3d will run considerably behind the general ticket, having received a very cold support from the organ of his party; and if Mr. Winslow was a more generally known man, might be defeated. 
We incline to the opinion that the nominees for Assembly are—with an exception or so hereabouts—gentlemen any of whom will do the county credit, and represent her as she ought to be represented. To Mr. Bleecker or Mr. Atwater in the 7th; Mr. Chauncey or Mr. Parsons, in the 4th; Gen. Duryea or Major Farnsworth in the 3d; and others—old, respected, well known citizens, the interests of the city may be safely committed. We can only wonder how men of this stamp could ever have obtained the suffrages of primary meetings.
