20 July 1857
“Officers Bribed, In Brooklyn And Elsewhere—Plenty of Others Besides Preston”
	We have received the subjoined letter from Ex-Alderman Preston, which we give to our readers, for their consideration and comments. Much has been said about the case of the representative of the Fifteenth Ward, but there are some points we will yet briefly recur to.
	In some form or other, bribery reaches a very large proportion of the city officers, Aldermen, Heads of Departments, Policemen, &c. &c. Of course, bribery is not the prevailing rule; but it is common. It does not come “square up,” saying, you take so much money, and vote so and so. It is mostly in some indirect manner.
	These may strike the reader as very daring and hitherto unheard-of charges. To all who have long frequented the cool corridors, upstairs and down-stairs, of the City Hall, they will however present nothing new; and such will confirm every word of what we say.
	Within the past thirty years, Politics in Brooklyn, (as elsewhere in the United States,) has been entered upon by large numbers who actively engage in it, simply to “do the best they can for themselves,” in other words, to make money. Very inferior sets of men have the control of the parties—we make no exception of any party; and they manage the different ward, city, county, and State nominations.
	The most unscrupulous persons, with the greatest supply of brass, and the quickest readiness to sell the people out-and-out, are the aptest to have the selection of the candidates—and indeed to become the candidates.
Then our elections being often little else than brawling, blathering, deafening scenes of confusion, the sort of men just named get a majority of the votes, in the hubbub. These votes are extracted from all sorts of quarters. In general, two-thirds of the people don’t know who or what they are voting for.
	All this is inevitable, however, as a part of the process toward better things. The American people are no fools—nor is villainy strong enough, even in politics, to hold permanent sway, after once the masses of the citizens are fully posted up of its existence in those who are their delegates. Already, indeed, there are unmistakable signs of reform.
	We have gone over this ground, because it has a direct bearing upon the assertions made above that a large proportion of the officers of the City of Brooklyn receive profitable emoluments, and sometimes money, clandestinely, for their action as executive or legislative servants of the people. Is official Brooklyn, then, any worse than other cities? No, probably not so bad as other cities—certainly not so bad as New York.
	It is incumbent upon us not to let our remarks go forth without appending our knowledge and belief that there are also in the various branches of the government of Brooklyn men with undoubtedly pure hands, and a single disposition for the interests committed to their charge. We especially allude to him who is at the head of the city power, against whom we have never yet heard the breath of slander expressed. Of course, some of the Aldermen could also be named—and others besides.
	Now for Ex-Aldermen Preston himself:
	We fully approve the course of the Common Council in expelling Mr. Preston—nor do we think the Investigating Committee ought to have been discharged without receiving the special thanks of the Board, and of the public. There is so much honey-fugling and friendly inter-tickling among these city officials, that the stern performance of a disagreeable and profitless duty, like what they acquitted themselves of so well, deserves marked approbation. We only wish that other “receivers” in the Board, and under its control, (whoever they may be,) might be served with a taste of the same severity.
	What is past is past. But that is no reason why George Preston, if he henceforward pursues a manly and undeviating course of conduct, should not retrieve his position, and again stand as well with the public as the ordinary run of respectable men. The fault he committed is probably no worse than the average of the Brooklyn politicians would commit, and have committed. So much we say in charitable mood—wishing to crush no man, and believing that the hopeful and elastic future has plenty of prizes for all who courageously press through it, having learned from the past the good lesson where they are weakest, and where they most need strength.
