20 June 1857
“A Bad Subject for a Newspaper Article”
SOMETHING TO THINK OF.—Under this caption the Express quotes the appalling statement from an official document, that there are “upwards of eighty thousand females in the city of London who gain their living by prostitution,” more than four thousand of whom were arrested during the past year, and sent to the public institutions, in a condition of degradation and loathsomeness not to be described. We have heard of the Irish farmer who attempted to convert a green apple tree into a sweet one by manuring it with molasses. Just as absurd is the effort to legislate against the passions. Nature is stronger than the statues. So long as the primal necessities are sanctified by love, legalized by the State, and the passions sublimated into affections, all is well; but in the present artificial state of society, these harmonious arrangements have come to be regarded rather as the exceptions than the rules; and the consequences as shown by London statistics, and mourned over by the Express, inevitably follow. What then is to be done with so radical an evil—such a wide-spreading vice? It requires some courage to look the question in the face and utter the only rational and philosophical answer. The evil must be recognized—regulated—LICENSED. Why not, as well as dram drinking!—[Evening Mirror.
After dark, in the great city of New York, any man passing along Broadway, between Houston and Fulton streets, finds the western sidewalk full of prostitutes, jaunting up and down there, by ones, twos, or threes—on the look-out for customers. Many of these girls are quite handsome, have a good-hearted appearance, and, in encouraging circumstances, might make respectable and happy women.
Some of these prostitutes have their own rooms, and “keep house” by themselves; others live in the usual establishments on a larger scale, owned by some old or middle-aged women, and tenanted by six, eight, or a dozen prostitutes. Of late, there are a great many cellars, drinking places, a number of them German—where the principal business is prostitution. There are not a few in Canal street, and in Greenwich street; and indeed, they are to be found in all parts of the city.
The hardest houses of all are those in Cherry, Water, and Walnut streets, and around the Five Points. Here the prostitutes are generally drunkards. Sailors, canal-boatmen, young fellows from the country, &c., go regularly there. You see the women half-exposed at the cellar-doors as you pass. Their faces are flushed and pimpled. The great doings in these quarters are at night. Then, besides the prostitution, there are dances, rum-drinking, fights, quarrels, and so on.
Though of course not acknowledged or talked about, or even alluded to, in “respectable society,” the plain truth is that nineteen out of twenty of the mass of American young men, who live in or visit the great cities, are more or less familiar with houses of prostitution, and are customers to them.—A large proportion of the young men become acquainted with all the best known ones in the city.
Especially of the best classes of men under forty years of age, living in New York and Brooklyn, the mechanics, apprentices, sea-faring men, drivers of horses, butchers, machinists, &c., &c., the custom is to go among prostitutes as an ordinary thing. Nothing is thought of it—or rather the wonder is, how can there be any “fun” without it.
Of the classes we have mentioned, now in these cities, how many are there who have not been diseased? Of all these young men, which of them is not familiar with “the bad disorder?” Sometimes they do not dare to mention it—nobody dares to mention it. Yet what block of houses in New York and Brooklyn might not bear witness to its existence? What shame, what concealment, what degradation, what long suffering, might they not expose—every one of them!
There is so little inter-communion, for the young men, between themselves and the select classes of pious, orderly, fatherly persons!
All these things go forward meanwhile, not permitted to be brought to light. In offices, in by places, hundreds of quacks are to-day dosing thousands of the best bodies in the land, with strong and never-erased drugs, mercury, bitter extracts, powerful salts and precipitates,--exhausting the last dime of their victims—not even then casting out the devils except by leaving in their place Beelzebub, the prince of devils.
If prostitution continues so, and the main classes of young men merge themselves more and more in it, as they appear to be doing, what will be the result? A generation hence, what a scrofulous growth of children! What dropsies, feebleness, premature deaths, suffering infancy are to come!
We throw out these paragraphs to arouse attention, and to help encourage the open mention of such things—and close with the following interrogatories: 
Why is marriage getting less and less in repute—a weaker and weaker tie?—And why is the sneaking and filthy practice of men of means supporting kept-women for themselves becoming more and more common?
For what earthly good are all the facts, physiological, &c., that should most thoroughly be understood by young persons, and that are most vital to every healthy human being.—Why are these so resolutely taboo’d by “respectable people?”
Why is not a candid and courageous course pursued by writers and speakers, upon the subject of sexuality? How shall we escape coming to that at last?
Is not every young man, every girl—every person of any age—desirous of having a powerful, agreeable, clear-fleshed, sweet-blooded body? And through this universal wish, could not human pollution in all its forms be best attacked, and put down?
