20 May 1857
“Van Anden and His Elephant”
A story is told of a man who won an elephant in a raffle, and for a short time enjoyed the joke amazingly, while boasting to all his acquaintances of his unique possession. But the subsequent embarrassment of the purchaser, when he found his elephant eating up all his income, and no possibility of getting rid of him, was not so pleasant, especially as he was made liable for all the depredations committed by his unwieldy piece of property. Thus it is with the proprietor of the Eagle and the “wild Irishman” who despotically sways it over him and his office.
It is well nigh impossible for two journals published in the same city to avoid being brought into collision on different topics of which both may treat; nor can they easily avoid business transactions with each other. But it was reserved for Van Anden to employ an editor who to avenge the defeats in controversy he has met with from us, cherishes the direst spirit of malignity, an at every successive instance of the Times surpassing the Eagle in fullness or promptitude of news, makes a fresh vow to do some personal or pecuniary harm to us or some one in our employ, by way of appeasing his malice and chagrin.
It is difficult to believe that mere business rivalry between Van Anden and ourselves, could ever have incited his factotum to such a degree of hatred as he has exhibited. His hostility to one of our employees may be traced to the same cause as his peevish spite against one of the principal clergymen in the city. Both arise from commendation bestowed by the clergyman in question on the professional skill of our reporter, as compared with the bungling efforts of Squeers.
Individually, Van Anden is a sufficiently common place, inoffensive character, with neither the malice to invent the underhand schemes which Squeers has put in operation to affect our business, nor the cacoethes scribendi to enable him to write for his paper, especially in the peculiar rum-hole style of blackguard invective which is habitual to Squeers, whether trating of the Bench, the Pulpit, or his fellow members of the Press. We do not accuse Van Anden of the efforts made to entice away one after another of our employees—nor of publishing private conversations—not of asserting again and again the grossest falsehoods about ourselves. We have reason to know, from his own subsequent apologies to us, that he disapproves of these disgraceful and unwarrantable acts. But we do blame him for keeping a half-mad whelp about his premises, who is forever getting him into hot water, giving him as much as he can do every morning to go round among our public men, apologizing for the libels and insults so profusely scattered on them in the paper of the night before—in other words, repairing the damage his elephant has done.
It is needless for us to say that we bear no animosity against Van Anden—we can only pity the poor fellow, and wish him a speedy deliverance from his elephant—which like the Old Man of the Sea sitting round the neck of Sinbad, is an incubus threatening to utterly overwhelm him. Cypher though he is, even in his own office, Van Anden cannot but regret the difficulties into which the mad temper and unappeasable malignity of Squeers are drawing him. Let him remember the trouble he had last fall, in wheeling his own paper into the support of the Democratic ticket. He knows, and we know, the reason was that the unforgiving Squeers had been foiled, among others by Col. Graham, in his efforts to become clerk of the Board of Supervisors—hence he had vowed to support no ticket with the Colonel’s name on it. And one of his worst outbursts of passion against ourselves, was written because we endorsed a request sent by the Colonel to the Common Council.
Were not this article too long already, we might go on to instance matters of this kind at greater length. Suffice it however to say, that there has hardly been a statement made by Squeers respecting ourselves which is not grossly, knowingly, and maliciously false; as witness the assertion that we are too grossly ignorant even to use the scissors! His animosity to Alderman Kalbfleisch, President Lindsay, Judge Culver, Commissioner Graham, and other pubic men, has arisen solely from their opposition to his attempts to get appointed to public offices, where he might receive salary without doing work. For instance, he coolly proposed to a city functionary to be admitted as one of the deputies, to receive full pay but to edit the Eagle as usual, and never to begin to work for the City until the afternoon! and on the official’s refusal, started himself in opposition to him at the next election, but was repudiated, even by his own party. His animosity to ourselves we have already accounted for. 
It is difficult to chastise a chimney sweep without defiling one’s fingers: but we trust that in administering the fore going expose and castigation we have kept as far from Squeers’ own level of unmitigated blackguardism as was possible, considering the despicable nature of the subject we had to deal with.
