20 November 1857
“Taxation of Real Estate”
Perhaps the best-abused and most undeservedly obnoxious of all classes are the owners of real estate. As there are more poor people than rich in the world, so in the present artificial state of society there are more tenants than landlords, and the latter are viewed in the estimation of the former with unmerited severity. Their good fortune is rated too highly, and the drawbacks therefore are not sufficiently taken into account.
The payment of money is not a pleasant operation, more especially when the benefit or equivalent which we receive for our cash has already been exhausted. And as few of the payments that the majority of men make are larger, so few are more grudgingly parted with than of rent. No class of capitalists pockets so much of the ill-will of others with his gains, as the houseowner. The stock gambler of Wall street obtains his successes at the expense of some of his fellow sharpers; the railway or bank, or insurance stock holder gets his dividends from his customers indirectly, and without their missing the money, but the landlord in obtaining the interest of the money he has invested in houses has to collect directly from the tenant, who regards this debt as the most onerous which he lies under, and is apt to look upon the landlord as a vampyre, unfeelingly sucking, so to speak, the very life-blood of his income.
Strange as it may at first sight seem, we are inclined to regard the owner of real estate as somewhat of a victim—as being a decidedly illused individual, rendered so both by circumstances and by legislation—especially the latter. The man who invests money in commercial enterprise, if he only chooses his investments with caution and discretion, may draw annually a safe and abundant interest for his means. His property need not lie idle, or be a dead loss to him, like an uninhabited house; nor is it subject to the influence of wind and weather, and a heavy percentage for wear and tear. House property is often thrown unproductive into the owner’s hands, and whether inhabited or not it is perpetually depreciating in stability and needing frequent repair. There are many kinds of personal property totally exempt to say the least, from probable depreciation.
But the greatest misfortune of the real estate owner is that from first to last the law lays its heavy hand upon him with remorseless severity. While his lots are yet vacant and unproductive, local assessments of every kind pour upon them with alarming frequency, in addition to the ordinary taxation. And when the lots are built upon, the tax is mercilessly augmented, though the houses may not be tenanted for years. Nor is it merely a fair proportion of the taxes that the luckless houseowner is called upon to pay: on the contrary almost the entire burden of supporting the institutions of the local and State governments is thrown upon this description of property. And if, as an offset to the undue share of taxation which house property bears, the owners look for legislation to assist them in realising the interest on their money, by enabling them to enforce payment of rents, they find it exactly the other way. The law gives every facility to a dishonest tenant to avoid payment, and throws every obstacle in the way of the landlord, either obtaining the rent due him, or ousting a mischievous or unproductive occupier of his premises.
By a recent law, the Supervisors are required to remit the taxes on a corporation whose net profits are less than five per cent per annum; and under this provision not a few of our most extensive corporate institutions have claimed and received remission of taxation. Were the same principle extended to real estate, a house which contributes nothing to its owner, by being uninhabited, would not be called on to contribute to the taxes. We cite this as a single instance of the undue disparity of the burdens on real estate as compared with other sources of income. But, waiving this, we may at least inquire why the lynx eye of the assessor, which overlooks not one square foot of swamp land in the city’s bounds, does not more clearly investigate the means by which so many landless citizens roll in opulence. The present system of assessing personal property is a mere sham; it is doubtful whether one-fiftieth part of the personal property of the citizens of Brooklyn pays tax. Only the very richest men are taxed at all for personal estate—and even those only for mere fractions of their actual resources. Every man who is known to live in anything like affluence should be required to swear to the amount of his personal property, and should be taxed therfor. The assessors evince a criminal negligence in the estimation of personal property. Many a poor fellow who nominally owns the house he lives in is driven to his wits’ end to raise funds to pay his tax and prevent his abode from being sold over his head, while another, who holds a mortgage for half or two thirds of the value of the same house, pays nothing. This ought not to be.
After all, this subject of taxation is not a mere landlord’s question. It concerns the very poorest. If professional men’s incomes, money grubbers’ mortgage deeds, and securities and stocks of all kinds, were made to pay their fair and full proportion to the public treasury, as they ought to be and could be, the burdens on real estate would be sensibly diminished, rents would be reduced, and the laboring classes would feel the benefit most of all, in the having cheaper and better household accommodations.
