21 August 1857
“What The Joint Board Have Done”
We remember once seeing a comic picture, in which two legislators were being catechised by their constituents. “What have you done during the session?” ask the people of the Hon. Mr. J. “I’ve done nothing,” replies Mr. J. “And what have you been doing all the while, Mr. T?” Mr. T replies that he has been helping Mr. J. So it is with our Joint Board of Finance. In the course of an unexampled number of meetings, half of them have done nothing, and the other half have been diligently helping their colleagues.
They have manifested great zeal for economy. In raising half a million, their tender anxiety that no part of the money should be misappropriated led them to debate some half dozen times, take at least a score of divisions, and hold two or three extra meetings, to determine whether four thousand dollars more ought to be granted for the House of Refuge. Had every item in the accounts been subjected to the same rigid scrutiny, we should anticipate a material reduction in the general expenses of the city.
The next bone of contention has been the Fire Department expenditures. Satisfied that their persistent opposition to the House of Refuge item would convince their constituents of their economic proclivities, some of the members thought they might safely find a vent for their overflowing benevolence in heaping additions on the amounts reported to be necessary for the maintenance of the Fire Departments. So in the course of a single quarter of an hour, the same body which had been a fortnight in determining whether $4000 was not an extravagant sum for the support of the truant children of the city, voted to increase the fire department expenses some $30,000, and this in view of the speedy introduction of water.
But last evening this intermittent fit of extravagance had disappeared, and the Board was seized with another attack of economy, in which it not only struck off the extra $30,000, but reduced the gross appropriations for the Departments about $13,000 below the amount reported by the committee. What shall we say to this Joint Board? How can we style it economical, in view of the proceedings of last Monday, and yet how can we censure it for extravagance, remembering its actions last evening?
The fact seems to be that the majority of the members do not know their own minds. They come to the Board in a Micawberish mood waiting for something to turn up. If the Board acts liberally to one ward, they instantly put in a similar claim for their ward; and if their own demands are rejected, they begin to perceive that the taxes are very onerous, and they feel conscientiously impelled to vote against every other demand, however just.
Each member of the Board should have examined the financial statements, before coming to the first meeting, so that he could have been prepared to acquiesce in every statement the committee have furnished, unless there existed good grounds for amending it. As it is, we believe the only way to get the appropriations passed at all will be to adopt the remainder of the statements as the committee have reported them. They have been compiled carefully, by some of the ablest members both of the Common Council and of the Supervisors; and from the specimen which the Joint Board at large has hitherto furnished of its legislative abilities, we doubt if it is able to improve upon the committee’s work.

