21 May 1857
“California Wagon-Roads”
The national government progresses with due energy in the making of the great public roads between the valley of the Mississippi and the States and territories on the Pacific. Already gangs of men, under the supervision of engineers, surveyors, &c., are wending their way to the points of departure of the roads, and perhaps have already commenced work upon the ground. It is expected the roads will be in complete traveling order two years hence. 
So small are the beginnings of the greatest enterprises! For these Wagon-roads will lead to the construction, in due time, of the Pacific Railroad, long talked of, and which when made, will be the proudest monument of human industry, enterprise, and improvement, that ever yet rose from the hands of man upon the surface of the earth—greater than Pyramids, Colossus of Rhodes, Temple of Diana, Hanging Gardens, or any other of the wonders of the ancient world.
And there are plenty of human beings now born who will see this wonder accomplished. The huge golden weight of California has been cast into the scale, and added to it the incalculable commerce that is certain to arise with Australia, Polynesia, Japan, and Eastern Asia; these make imperative the want of the Pacific Railroad—a line of communication between the Eastern States and the Western States—perhaps several lines.
What a destiny is that of those immense tracts lying west of the Mississippi! The huge ridges of the Rocky Mountains, shedding on the one hand their waters into the Father of Rivers, and on the other hand toward California, divide numbers of future States that are going to play full as important a part in the national destinies as the States that lie to the east, including the great States of New York, Ohio, and Massachusetts. 
In the national Wagon-roads, now commenced, is to be seen the first sign of an effort by the government to tie the two vast distances together. From them, as we have said, will come not only a more definite knowledge of that wild country, but there will sprout up permanent settlements, more or less sparse, along the routes of the roads. These will break the wilderness, and make it eligible to the visitations of civilized man.
