21 November 1857
“Advice to Jones”
These are gloomy times, JONES—you well know that without our reminding you of it. There is little money to be got and less confidence. Sour, anxious faces meet you at street corners. Pale, pinched widows and tattered, wan-visaged children look thrice at their pittance before they part with it to the groceryman’s clerk. There is suffering in the squalid dens of poverty where you would naturally look for it, and there is still greater suffering (because concealed) in quarters where you never would think of looking for it. In public squares there are groups of gaunt workingmen, unpleasantly bony in appearance, who ask for work or death. The cold winter is fairly upon us, and we have already a foretaste of its rigors. The prospect is dismal, JONES, very dismal, we readily grant all that and pray God to mend it. But how does it fare with you, Friend? You have no immediate fears of starvation, we apprehend. You have a comfortable roof over your head, you are not out of employment, and we venture to surmise that you have a “pile,” be the same more or less, that will ensure you against suffering for many a long month to come. At least we suppose thus much, seeing that you have made no removal of late, have raised a V for your commutation ticket, still indulge in port-house steak and buckwheat cakes and regale yourself with a matutial cigar. You could not do these things, so philosophically, we imagine, if the worthy matron at home and all the little JONES’ were vainly endeavoring to extra nutriment from a crust of mouldy bread or the shiny surface of a “cold-vittles” mutton-bone. What is the wisest course for you to pursue, JONES, with reference to the distress around you? Will you button up your pockets with selfish, apathetic indifference, turn a deaf ear to the calls for help that arise on every side, grumble to yourself some wise saw about its being “none of your business,” and make a hog of yourself generally? Will you go around croaking about the excessive hardness of the times, and predicting worse to come, like some bird of ill-omen? Will you answer to your wife’s mild insinuations in reference to the great bargains to be found in Grand street, as advertised in the TIMES, torture your visage into a still sourer expression and express your belief that the county work-house is to be the ultimate destination of yourself and family? Will you aid in making a bad thing worse by unreasonable apprehensions and useless complainings? Do not so, O JONES! You will not if you be the man of sense we take you for. Be not fretful, nor excited, nor alarmed. Keep cool, and indeed you may, without much exertion, in the present state of the thermometer—and above all keep a good heart and a good face upon these “times.” Let your sympathies glow and expand. Give a large sum if you can afford it, and a small one of you cannot, and good words and deeds if you can afford nothing more to some deserving charity. Remember the families whom a little judicious aid might save from suffering. Remember the unemployed and close not your heart to the appeals of the Industrial School. Cultivate the Humanities, JONES—there is no better time than now—let your charities widen as the prospect narrows. Show yourself the philosopher and Christian which we all along gave you credit of being. So shall your turkey at Thanksgiving be of the fattest, and your mince pies at Christmas the most digestible. So shall you increase, prosper and multiply like several green bay trees! Selah!
