21 November 1857
“The Punishment of Crime”
The recent alarming increase of the number and atrocity of offences against life and property in this, and more particularly in the neighboring city, should speak in thunder tones to all persons who have to do with the administration of criminal justice, of the necessity of putting forth every effort which the defective state of our criminal law system admits of, to render the detection and punishment of the guilty swift, severe, and certain. The vigilance of the police should be redoubled; justices should place no warrants for criminal process in the hands of constables, deputy sheriffs, or any persons but policemen, and should exact prompt attention to every document they issue for service. They should use extra caution and carefulness with respect to the character and responsibility of those whom they accept as bail for prisoners. In all these and many other respects there is room for greater fidelity and discretion than has often been shown heretofore, and an improvement is loudly called for by the exigencies of the time.
Upon the District Attorney, too, and upon the County Judge, an additional responsibility is thrown by the growing disregard of law and the rights of individuals which is making itself so fearfully apparent. No unnecessary postponements of trials, delay of prosecutions, or nolle prosequis should be permitted now. The avenues for the escape of offenders from the grasp of Justice are too numerous already, and should not be multiplied by the negligence or misplaced leniency of those to whom the public has committed the atonement for its outraged rights. Yesterday a criminal trial which had been fixed to take place that day in the Court of Sessions had to be postponed, the prisoner liberated on bail, and the time of the Court wasted, because forsooth one of the witnesses had got married several days before, and could not be expected to let his duties as a witness interfere with the delights of the honeymoon! It is to be presumed that this man had—at least he ought to have had—ample notice that his attendance was required by the Court on that day; and if he did not choose to come, he should have been severely punished for his contumacy. But by Judges and District Attorneys good-naturedly winking at omissions of this kind, an idea get abroad that when a party is notified to attend at a particular time, it is pretty much at his option whether to attend or not, for if he cannot make it convenient to come the Court will send him another notification, or wait until he is at leisure. Then, on the next occasion some other witness “slips up” in a similar way, and not infrequently the prisoner is tried with insufficient evidence, or the case lingers on until it is impracticable to procure a conviction.
The defects of the law, the absurd system of challenging ad infinitum, and the crotchets or stupidity of jurors, are obstacles enough, in all conscience, to the strict enforcement of justice. If we cannot remove any of these, at least let us not have also to complain of any laxity of administration on the part of the officers of the law.
