21 October 1857
“The Truant Children Law”
The crowning glory of the State of New York consists—not in the number of her inhabitants or the extent or fertility of her territory—nor even in the vastness of her commerce and the magnificence of her public buildings and institutions. All these things, which tend to exalt her among States, are possessed in an equal and in some instances superior degree by other communities. Her greatest glory and highest honor lie not in these, but in the provision which she has made for the training of her embryo citizens. She has recognized, more fully and clearly than any other community in modern or ancient times, the duty which the State owes to the rising generation who form part of the population; and in her Common School system she has provided means for their training into good citizens and worthy members of Society, which are nowhere else equaled. By the establishment, at immense cost to her taxpayers, of district schools throughout the State, she aims to place within the reach of every child born on her soil the knowledge which shall fit him efficiently to discharge the duties of citizenship which he will be called on to assume; and while in common with all other communities she claims obedience to her laws, she recognizes the fact that it is first the duty of the State to instill into the minds of the young those lessons which are afterwards to be put in practice in a virtuous manhood. Having no military despotism, like the nations of the old world, to enforce submission to the laws by force, she strives to inculcate in her Public Schools that sense and knowledge of the right which will lead the future citizen to yield an intelligent and cheerful obedience.
But there is a class whom the Public School system cannot operate upon, because it cannot reach them. In the large cities there are many children, some deprived of parental care, and others neglected by those who should be their natural guardians, who never enter the Public Schools, and hence in regard to them the benevolent and far-reaching statesmanship which gave New York her Common Schools is without effect. To reach these classes the Truant act of 1853 was passed—a fitting complement and apex of the Public School system, resting on the same unassailable and eternal basis of wisdom and philanthropy on which our glorious system of free education stands.
In the Eagle of yesterday we find the enactments of this law misrepresented and its design and operation caricatured and calumniated. The editor says:--
[Extract omitted]
To expose the falsity of this statement, and the fallacy of the arguments against the Truant Home which are based upon it, we need only quote from the law itself:
[Extract omitted]
The above needs neither comment nor defense. None but those who fear early instruction and free inquiry—none but those who cling to the venerable errors of the theology of the Dark Ages, and hate alike all modern intelligence and freedom of belief, and who therefore abhor equally the Public School system and the Truant Law, can object to a legislative scheme whose design contemplates and whose operation will tend to effect, the reclamation of unfortunate uncared-for children from ignorance and vice, and their elevation into honest, decent, and self-supporting members of society.
The Protestant American people of Kings County will regard with indignation this attempt on the part of the Eagle to cast a slur on a law which they justly regard as one of the most beneficent and wise enactments on the Statute Book; and those of them who are acquainted with the paternity of the Eagle articles will not be long in discovering from what quarter of the theological world the writer drew his inspiration.
