22 August 1857
“The Water Works—Difficulties Ahead”
We have, on the eve of going to press, received a copy of a pamphlet containing a communication from J.P. Kirkwood, Esq., Chief Engineer of the Brooklyn Water Works, to H. Prentice, Esq., President of the Commissioners. From it we gather that very serious impediments menace the further progress of the works.
The grade of the canal beyond Jamaica Creek passes below the water line of the gravel plain through which it is being constructed. The contract requires the canal to be lined at its bottom and sides by a foot thickness of clay puddling. The water of the plain is continually percolating through the canal, and this “puddling” cannot obtain the requisite consistence and strength, being exposed to a continuous immersion in the percolating water. In order to keep the channel dry while the puddling “sets,” an immense amount of pumping will be required. This condition of things, says Mr. Kirkwood, will be found to be embarrassing and expensive.
Consequently he has turned his attention to the other means which may be adopted for bringing the water along the plain. One of these is to make the level of the canal altogether higher than the drainage level, that is, the depth at which the bubbling springs would endanger the permanence of the sides and bottom of the canal. But if this plan were resorted to an expense of several thousand a year would be caused by pumping the water from the ponds into the canal, which would be elevated several feet above their surface.
The only other plan suggested is a medium between the two former—to have the canal higher than it is at present, but not so high as to be altogether beyond the influence of the subsoil springs. This plan combines the disadvantages of both the others, but each in a less degree.
Having had no previous intimation of this state of things, we can do no more than furnish the above brief summary of Mr. Kirkwood’s statement. It seems evident that considerable engineering difficulty is presented this state of facts; and in the emergency which has arisen, it is well that the engineer is one in whom confidence can be placed.
We are informed that the Mayor has called a special meeting of the Common Council for Monday afternoon next, when the Water Commissioners will lay the subject before the Board of Aldermen, probably with a view to obtain the sanction of the city fathers to such further expenditures as may be rendered necessary in view of the unforeseen predicament in which the works are placed.
From the cursory perusal which we have given to Mr. Kirkwood’s statement, we do not see that the ultimate success of the plan is at all jeopardised, or that the difficulties which present themselves are at all unsuperable; but appears certain that the cost of the work will be enhanced beyond the contract price of $4,100,000.
