22 August 1857
“’On Horror’s Head, Horrors Accumulate’”
The reign of terror still continues. Not a day without its long catalogue of crimes, leading off with a bloody murder or two, and tapering down into an “extensive embezzlement.”
Let us glance at this morning’s Herald and see how it is filled up. First comes the usual morning murder, which “turns up” as inevitably as our coffee for breakfast. This time it is a young lawyer who is killed in Broadway by a pistol shot at the hands of an acquaintance of long standing. The ball enters his mouth, and he dies on the instant. So much for that.
On the same page we find four columns of evidence in the mysterious murder, outrage, singular death, or whatever it was, at Shrewsbury. All of this is most painful and repulsive.
Then again come “fresh disclosures” and “startling revelations” in the Burdell Baby matter. This whole affair grows more rank and “smells to Heaven” more foully with the passage of every week. In the account referred to there are exposures of sham accouchements, seductions and baby-substitutions enough to disgust one with one’s race and make Timons of us all.
In another column we find the details of an extensive embezzlement at the St. Nicholas’ Hotel, which gives us another glimpse of the corrupt penetralia of New York life. Pretty much the same elements are mixed up in these affairs. Fast living, fast women, and their usual consequences, fraud, swindling, arrest and exposure. A little stir is made, when the veil is lifted for a moment, but it soon blows over, the warning is unheeded, the game goes on. Vive le joie! Let to-morrow take care of itself. These are the favorite mottos of the fast youths and the demi-monde. 
Turn we to the Police intelligence, and what do we find? Swindle upon swindle. Accounts of countrymen being beset by sharpers and robbed in the most barefaced manner, of patent safe games and frauds upon emigrants. In half the cases no detection, no reparation. The victims must “grin and bear it,” while the harpies who prey upon them and who are making the name of the Empire City a terror, a reproach and a bye-word among those portions of the country which the Herald is fond of denominating “the provinces,” go scot free. 
Such small matters as stabbing affrays, counterfeiting &c., are too numerous and common to touch upon.
This is the nutriment that is served up to us every day. “Not a day without its line,” said the virtuous Emperor of the latter Empire. Not a day without its abominable crime, say we, who live under another regime. We are glad to see that the metropolitan press are at last alive to the vast increase of vice and immorality in that great city of late years. We are glad to see that all parties are becoming alive to the subject. Let the matter be discussed calmly and temperately, and let the causes be pointed out and proper remedies devised. Nothing but good can arise from a healthful ventilation of the subject in all its bearings. Nothing but evil can ensue from a supine indifference.
