22 May 1857
“The Police Contest”
The public, it seems, are not yet fully apprised of the extent of Fernando Wood’s rebellious defiance of law and violation of order. That bold autocrat is not satisfied with setting aside the enforcement of a law because it conflicts with his interpretation of the constitution; we learn this morning from his organ, the Herald, that he purposes to continue to defy it, even if the Courts of the State should affirm its validity. Says the Herald—
There cannot be the slightest doubt of the unconstitutionality of the attempt to bring the counties adjoining New York within the same measure of police legislation as that of the city itself. Were the Court of Appeals to decide that question in favor of the Legislature, the point is so clear that it is certain the citizens of New York would not hold themselves bound for a moment to abide by its decision.
We trust that this will open the eyes of law-abiding citizens of every party to the character and designs of the unscrupulous Mayor of New York. We have his aim now set before us in black and white. Having repudiated the authority of the Legislature and the Governor, he is prepared also to scout that of the Court of Appeals, if its decision be adverse to the retention of his perverted despotic control over the police of New York.
Under a monarchy, pliant law-makers may enact, and servile judges may approve statutes which infringe the rights of the citizen, and render resistance at once a necessity and a duty. But in a republic, the man who would coolly and deliberately plunge a city into anarchy, by refusing obedience to laws enacted by a Legislature of the universal people’s choice, even if ratified and declared constitutional by the Judges elected by the people to expound the law—such a man commits treason against the sovereignty of the people, and deserves their unanimous execration.
We trust that Mayor Powell will take warnings from this announcement of Wood’s designs. We hope, for his own sake, and for the credit, interest and peace of Brooklyn, that her chief municipal officer is not prepared to go to any such treasonable length. The police question of itself sinks into the supremest insignificance, compared with a precedent which tramples the authority of legislative enactments and the sanctity of judicial decisions, beneath the feet of an unscrupulous demagogue.
