22 September 1857
“Political”
The details of the doings of the Democratic County Nominating Convention yesterday, will be found in another column. The result was what we anticipated, and what had indeed been anticipated by hundreds of politicians many months ago, the nomination of Ex-Ald. George Remsen—though we must confess the unanimity which characterized the Convention in their choice of a candidate for Sheriff surprised us, and must have surprised the Remsen men themselves. It will be seen that our fellow-townsman, Robert W. Allen, received but thirteen votes—the reason being that his delegates in the 13th, 14th and 19th Wards were ruled out, and other delegates of views antagonistic to Mr. A admitted. By this decision Mr. Allen lost twelve votes, and some of the more enthusiastic of his friends think even the nomination itself. We do not unite in this opinion—we believe the nomination of Mr. George Remsen was a forgone conclusion, an inevitable result. The friends of Mr. Allen feel grieved, but their Democracy is too well “dyed in the wool” for them to hesitate in supporting the regular nominee. We recommend the friends of Mr. Remsen to buy their hats at Bob’s store, and pledge him their support for Registrar next year. Bob has been a life-long faithful Democrat, and is worthy of the most exalted honors.
We may say of the Democratic nominee for Sheriff that he is a man of great personal popularity, unbounded good humor, and unquestioned integrity. He will be a hard man to beat.
From what we can learn, we think Mr. Booth will not be one of the nominees for Superintendent of the Poor, although he is endorsed by the organ and many of the best members of the party. We don’t think the members of this Convention trouble themselves much about the taxes, and then a man who is precise in the discharge of the duties of his office—especially if it is a disbursing office—is apt to be unpopular among the class who do up the primaries. However, previous to the re-assembling of the Convention on Monday next, it is possible that the friends of Mr. Booth may rally in his behalf, and change a determination, which, at present, appears to be final.
Yesterday, we intimated that Tunis G. Bergen would be the Senatorial nominee in the IIID District. We return to our original belief that the nomination will be conferred on Mr. F.B. Spinola. Frank is altogether too active to be taken down in securing a nomination when he sets out for it, especially when opposed by our unobtrusive (save in the Board of Supervisors) friend from New Utrecht.
