22 September 1857
“Board of Health”
In common with the public at large, we were disappointed of seeing the last comet—that eccentric visitant, concerning whose expected presence so much was written and said, having failed to make his appearance. Nevertheless, we have, in the presence of the Board of Health, a perfect similitude of the comet, so far as its nature and habits have been described to us by astronomers. The comet is said to be eccentric in its movements; every one will perceive that herein the Board successfully emulates it. The comet indicated its intention to be here on a given day, and wasn’t, so does the Board time after time keep all the people who have business to transact with it waiting in vain for its appearance. Then again the comet is said to have a tail of exceeding great length and curious description; and so we shall find has the Board of Health, in the shape of an exceedingly long bill of expenses to be defrayed by the public. We have fortunately escaped being switched by the comet’s tail, but there is no escaping the inevitable appendage of the Board of Health.
Dropping the simile, however, we are bound to say that the Board have been acting in an exceedingly strange and unaccountable way. Before the Preston expose, a quorum could be procured every day without difficulty; now a meeting twice or even once a week cannot be ensured. Beyond extorting a few blackmail tributes as originally constituted, and threatening to drive all manufacturing establishments out of the city to prove its virtue when remodeled, the Board has done nothing this summer. To be sure, it has passed a great many resolutions; being almost as great in this department as the leading orator of the bogus Democratic “consolidated” Committee. But unfortunately the mere words “resolved that the same be abated” do not of themselves abate anything that is really a nuisance, or the culvert foot of South Third street would not have been “ordered abated.” Gentlemen of excellent intentions, we have no doubt the present members of the Board are, but they appear nevertheless to have done more harm than good this summer. We greatly fear that their fits-and-starts crusades against manufacturing establishments have indirectly cost the city a larger sum than can readily be estimated, for they may lead to an impression among persons engaged in various kinds of manufactures that the authorities of Brooklyn are hostile to the presence of such establishments.
