23 May 1857
“Kansas and the Political Future”
Governor Walker has at last planted himself in Kansas—and now we shall see how he manages that troublesome government, after so many other Governors have failed. Will he too try to suit the arrogant Slaveocracy—the one-tenth of the mass? Or will he give in to the judgment and interests of the people, the nine-tenths, the main body?
We do not believe Robert J. Walker to be either a remarkably bad or remarkably good man. He is one of a numerous class of American political aspirants—perhaps a favorable specimen of the class. He is easy, subtle, persuasive, a Voltairean, a materialist, averse to pain and blood, disposed to compromise, and without any profound faith in the people. He has a single eye to the material interests of the country and its inhabitants.
Though this sort of statesmen is not the highest order of men, it doubtless comprises the men now most needed in America—North, South, East and West—in the Federal Government, in the States, in the Territories, everywhere. The slavery question in Kansas has been drifting all along in a position where it will be argued and settled on its physical basis. Will slavery be profitable? Will it not, on the contrary, be death to a capacious, new, central State? Will it not exclude the masses of white workingmen from any sight there?
Walker is not such a fool as to leave these considerations out of view. Neither has he a disposition so bad or so obstinate as to try to “push” slavery, merely for the abstract satisfaction of the three hundred thousand slave holders. Nor do we suppose Walker “believes” in slavery—he is too advanced for that. All that he cares about, probably, is the trouble, in perspective, if he lacks a proper respect for the modern theory of the equality of slavery with freedom, under the Constitution.
Moreover, will the federal government undertake to carry on its back the bogus laws of the Slave Legislature, which the people of Kansas did not elect? Soft soap will effect nothing; the people showed their teeth to Lieutenant Stanton at Lawrence a few days since—and if Walker tries the infliction of the bogus laws, there will certainly be another armed resistance, and it will be a stern one. About all this, we feel certain that Gov. W. can find some way to avoid the collision, and that there will be no armed resistance.
As things at present stand, we rather like Walker. There is always more fairness to be expected from a manly Southerner, than from a putty-boned Northerner. It is most likely that the coming Constitution of Kansas will be silent on the question of slavery—that the “national democracy” will, for a time, as usual, manage themselves into the possession of the spoils, the U.S. appropriations and contracts, the new state offices, with all the flesh-pots, whole sale and rented and that Kansas will be a Free State. Should this latter result be accomplished, the great revolution in politics which has characterised the last five years will be brought to the first stage of a triumphant conclusion. Should Kansas become a Slave XXXXX thenceforth a worse wreck than any that lies buried in the sands along Barnegat.
