23 October 1857
“The Hard Times”
Without intending it, we fear that many writers on financial matters have effected great mischief during the last few days. They have been so profuse in their exhortations to people to “economize,” that an idea seems to prevail that niggardliness is one of the cardinal virtues, and hoarding money the first duty man. If this wretchedly absurd advice is acted upon generally, the evils which have been hitherto sustained from the financial crisis will be as nothing in comparison with those which we shall yet have to pass through.
The material wealth of the country consists in, or can be made available only by, the hard hands and sinewy arms of labor. Every day that a mechanic or laborer spends in work, he adds something to the wealth of the nation; every day therefore that he is suffered to remain out of work is a dead loss to the community. The answer to the great question of how to lighten the financial pressure is, by keeping every one, as far as possible, in full and productive employ during the winter.
But it is said that there is no money to pay them. This is all nonsense. There is as much money among the community now as there was two or six months ago, but selfish alarm prompts those who have it to hoard it away instead of circulating it for the general benefit. If every one would pay his debts at once, as far as his ability extends, a very general degree of relief would be experienced, and many employers of labor would be enabled to go on, who otherwise must stop for want for want of money.
The poor have got to be supported this winter, idle or in work. Whether many of them are to be supported by the labor of their hands, or at the expense of the rest of the community, depends on the action of those who have money during the next few weeks. If all who can afford it will pay their debts, and have whatever work done they want, a great deal of suffering to the laboring classes, and cost to the taxpayers, will be averted. The Mayor of New York very properly recommends the Common Council of that city to hurry forward all public works, even if at the risk of assuming doubtful powers. Our Common Council should do the same. Let them have every low lot filled up that wants filling, and every hill dug down that has to be levelled. It will be better even for the owner, in most cases, that these things should be done now, when labor is plentiful and cheap, than at some future time. At any rate, it is better for a few owners of lots to be embarrassed a little, than for a great many laborers to be left altogether with out work and without support.
