23 September 1857
“The Sheriffalty”
The impression that the Democratic nomination for Sheriff is a very strong one, in general in Brooklyn and the rest of the County. The Star (W.D.) says
The Democrats nominated Mr. George Remsen, an ex-Alderman and native of Long Island. Mr. Remsen has been for many years a resident of this city, and is so well known for his many excellent qualities as a man of intelligence and sound judgment, that it would be folly in us to carry our political feelings so far as in any way to detract from his merits. We have known him intimately for a long time, and found him consistent and agreeable and free from that party asperity usually found in popular politicians. It is an excellent nomination, and we can assure our American party friends that unless a union is effected among them, he will surely be elected.
Mr. Under-Sheriff F.B. Stryker, with the frankness which is so inseparable from his kindly nature, says the Democrats had made the best possible nomination, but he thought it could be beaten by a union upon one man. It is possible that this union will be effected—certainly it will be if there leaders of the opposition parties can manage their rank and file. The conventions on both sides were, however, very refractory last year, and in the American Convention Charley Willets, of the 7th ward, and a majority of hot heads like him, were prepared to throw any delegate out of the window who breathed a word of union with the Republicans—for whom no term of reproach was too bitter. The Republicans, too, were disposed to turn the cold shoulder on their tried soldier Henry E. Ripley, because he had been nominated by the “Know Nothings.” However, Bro. Carter says, “things ain’t now as they used to was,” and that Geo. Remsen can be distanced by a union on Burdett Stryker, which can be brought about, he says, like a mice if the papers, for which he affects great contempt, will only keep still. We have also heard that David Stewart is a candidate for the nomination of Sheriff, his brother “Doc” having so stated. If this be so, the calculations as to the shape which things political on this side of the house will ultimately assume are considerably disturbed.
The action of the County Convention of the Democratic party in ruling out so many delegates, duly elected as they declare, has created much ill-feeling, which is smothered as yet. If the Allen delegates had been admitted, the nomination for Sheriff, as the large vote which Mr. Remsen received exhibits, would have been the same. But not so, with at least one of the Senate and one or more of the Assembly districts. Here the action of the County Conventions, if adopted as a precedent, involves an entire change of programme, which may engender considerable difficulty and future trouble in the ranks of the party in this section of the city.
