23 September 1857
“Amateur Incendiarism”
It is well understood in this community that acts of incendiarism are of frequent occurrence, not merely from motive of revenge, or for the purpose of defrauding the underwriters, but from—strange as it may appear—the pleasure derived from a conflagration. This latter motive usually actuates boys or young men, runners or follower of fire engines, who are always to be found on hand when an alarm is sounded at their favorite engine house.—[Herald.
Those who are posted up in these matters know that the charge preferred in the above extract is well-grounded, and that if a considerable part of the alarms of fire which occur almost daily could be investigated and traced to their origin, facts would come out which would startle and horrify the community.
Only last week arson trial took place before Judge Russell in the Court of Sessions, New York, in which a young man named Wogan was found guilty of willfully firing the premises of Mr. Bearne in Front street, and it came out in the trial that the accused was a runner to a fire engine, although not a member of any company, and to use the words of counsel, “his greatest ambition and delight appeared to be a conflagration. Hence the efforts to gratify this vicious desire.” This example is not a new one by any means. Some four or five years ago, a party of young men who “ran with der machine” in Utica, were detected in the act of firing buildings wantonly and without any other apparent motive than the love of witnessing a fire and assisting in putting it out.
This sort of thing ought to be ferreted out and put down, with a strong hand. The idea of sacrificing property and life to a mere love of excitement, for that is all it amounts to, is perfectly horrible. The wretches who indulge in such “amusements” must be as destitute of reason as of conscience.
Hereabouts, we are glad to know that there has been very little of this crime practiced. Fire alarms are becoming few and far between. The increased efficiency of the police force has scared the villains who, some time ago, thought it “good fun” to fire a barn, shed or out-house for the purpose of having a good run and exhibiting the qualities of their “pet engine.” Such cases, however, when met with, should be visited with the extremest severity which the law allows.
