24 September 1857
“The Board of Health”
We print in another column an apology and review of the proceedings of the Board of Health, written by one of the most prominent of its members; and which we consider it due, both to the writer and the public, to comment somewhat freely upon.
In the first place Alderman Scholes is mistaken in supposing that we intend to reflect on the motives of the Board and its members, as to any action of theirs subsequent to the change in its composition; nor do the remarks which called forth Mr. Scholes’s letter bear that construction.. Neither did we charge the Board with designedly attempting to drive away manufacturing establishments, but with imprudently pursuing such a course as is likely to deter capitalists, hereafter, from investing their means in manufacturing establishments in the city. 
The Alderman has in fact made out a stronger case against the Board than we thought fit to allege; he has confirmed and warranted the weightiest of our strictures, when he admits that “not even the slightest directions of the Board have been attended to,” unless they involved an expenditure of money—in plain words, we suppose, unless the execution of such directions could be made a source of profit to the parties entrusted with their fulfilment. Had so sweeping a remark come from any quarter less responsible and well informed, we should have hesitated to credit it.
Let us look at the case of the South Third street culvert, which has been referred to, Mr. Scholes admits that the nuisance was “ordered abated,” and still remains unabated: and yet holds the Board guiltless! We were verdant enough to imagine that it was the duty of the Board to enforce orders, as well as record them, and that the public might as justly hold them responsible for not seeing to the execution of their mandate, as for the omission to make the order. It is very little consolation to a citizen suffering from a nuisance, to be told that an order has been made for its removal, if he be also assured that the department making the order will take no steps to carry it into effect. It is idle to contend that a body to whom the law gives the power of issuing an order has not necessarily associated therewith the power to see its execution. The right to give the order implies the power to execute it, and if the Board have a right to direct the Corporation Counsel to prosecute a case, they also have the power to compel him to perform the duty they have entrusted to him. The public do not look to the Counsel, and ought not—they expect the men they have elected to perform their duties, and are willing to pay for the legal assistance required. The principal may not shelter himself behind the agent, nor can the Aldermen shift their responsibility on the officer whom they have appointed.
So much for the Board’s sins of omission; now for the sins of commission. The Board, it seems, have done something—helpless as they were—they have been fixing things so that next year’s Board can do something more effectual. Well, at this rate we may look for a perceptible improvement about the era of the Greek Kalends. But even this faint hope disappears, when we remember that next year’s Board may plead helplessness, just as the present Board have done. What then, Mr. Scholes? How will the Board be able to make its officers execute its orders next year, more than this?
We have neither space nor inclination to go over the De Burg case again in detail. To confess the truth, the conduct of the Board in this whole matter sickens us, just as the Alderman tells us the stench of the manure sickened him. Mr. Scholes’s statements of the facts, however, differs essentially from the version given by Mr. De Burg as well as by others. It is the vacillation which the Alderman admits to have characterized the action of the Board towards Mr. De B. that provoked our strictures. The whole case was treated in a slovenly and reprehensible manner. Mr. De Burg offered to produce scientific evidence that his business as carried on was not of the character such as to endanger the public health. This point the Board should have solved in the first instance, by the evidence of their Health Officer, and by hearing whatever medical testimony Mr. De Burg might have chosen to call. Then, after one impartial investigation, it should have come to a final and prompt conclusion, and have rigidly adhered to it thereafter. Instead of this the subject was dallied and paltered with, Mr. De Burg kept in suspense and the public agitated by apprehension, all through the season; and not the slightest clue has been afforded to the manufacturing community, to enable them to determine what kind of establishments will or will not be tolerated in the city henceforward.
We certainly agree with Mr. Scholes that no establishment which can be proved, on competent medical evidence, to be dangerous to health, should be permitted to exist within the city; but to prohibit a business not dangerous to health, merely because it may occasionally remind our nasal organs of its existence, is altogether preposterous. There are certain recognized and expected disadvantages attending residence in a populous city, from which we cannot hope that Brooklyn may be exempted. One of these is, that we cannot enjoy quite so pure an air as if we lived on the Catskill mountains. If we consent to banish every sausage shop, and distillery, and manure and other factory, that emits a perceptible odor, we may make Brooklyn a still more aristocratic place of residence, but only at the sacrifice of its business interests and material prosperity. We may thus make it like a country town-a most delightful place to live in, but shall we also complete the resemblance by having precious few people to live in it.
