25 August 1857
“Book and Magazine Notices”
HARPER’S STORY BOOKS, NO. 33
This is a number of a series of books adapted for the perusal of children, and by the reading of which they may receive useful knowledge, conveyed in an attractive form. Messrs. Harper and Brothers, if we may judge from the numbers of this series which we have hitherto seen, are as successful in providing for the needs of the rising generation as in catering to the literary taste of the “children of a larger growth.”
A CHILD’S HISTORY OF GREECE, 2 vols. By John Bonner. New York; Harper and Brothers.
Mr. Bonner has clothed the facts of his narrative, interesting as they are in themselves, in a dress which renders them peculiarly attractive to the youthful reader. Parents and teachers should place these volumes in the hands of the children under their charge.
FAMILY GYMNASIUM, by R.T. Trall. New York Fowler & Wells, Broadway.
Dr. Trall is an able coadjutor of Professor Fowler in the advocacy of his views on hygienic reform. His contributions to periodical literature, and former published works, have placed him high among the advocates of measures for ensuring the proper development of the physical system. The above named work contains hints and suggestions, statements, facts, and advice, of the utmost value to those who entertain a due regard for the greatest and most valuable of possessions, a sound, healthy bodily organism. 
HARPER’S MAGAZINE, for September.—It is superfluous to commend this, the most widely circulated monthly in the world. Every one who knows anything of our periodical literature is aware that Harpers’ obtained and retains its enormous circulation by giving double the quantity of matter to be found in any other magazine of the kind or price—and selected with care and taste. The September No. presents a varied and excellent table of contents. One of its articles, entitled, “Are we a polite people—Our Ladies”—has already become the text of a controversy in the newspaper press, some gallant editors insisting that Harper is too unsparing in its strictures on the “dear creatures’” faults. We append an extract, leaving our lady subscribers to determine for themselves whether they are not too hardly dealt with.
