25 August 1857
“The Turners’ New Hall”
The ceremony of opening the new and commodious Hall of the Turners Society of Williamsburgh, in Meserole street, came off last evening, according to notice. At about half-past 7 o’ clock, a large concourse had gathered in and around Blank’s garden, the Society’s old Headquarters, corner of Leonard street and Montrose ave., but in consequence  of the band engaged for the occasion not being forthcoming, the procession did not start till nearly 9 o’ clock. Having determined to wait no longer, the Society, some 200 strong, formed at that hour in the arena of the gymnasium, at the back of the garden, and marched in double file to the old meeting room, when a few parting ceremonies having been gone through, they took up the line of march for the new Hall, headed by the drum corps belonging to the society. The procession marched up Montrose avenue to Ewen street, along Ewen to Schols street, down Schols street to Leonard street, along Leonard to Meserole, and down Meserole to the Hall. The members of the Society on entering formed themselves into a hollow square, in the centre of the room, and the doors being thrown open to the public, the gallery and every available part of the Hall was soon crowded to the utmost capacity. The Sangerbund now marched into the middle of the square, and having sung the opening chorus of the Turners, “Gut Heil,” Mr. Reinhard came on the stage, and after apologizing for the non-arrival of the band, introduced Mr. Peterson, who delivered the opening address, which was loudly applauded. Another song by the Sangerbund followed, when the square was broken, seats placed up and down the hall, and the company proceeded to amuse themselves as they pleased,--eating, drinking, smoking, promenading and conversing. All appeared to enjoy themselves amazingly; although chagrined at the breach of faith in the part of the band (Heller’s, of New York). The ladies, many of whom had attired themselves for a ball, did not allow the disappointment to interfere with the harmony and cheerfulness of the occasion, but were radiant with smiles. 
The Sangerbund took up their position on the stage, and enlivened the company at various intervals with the soul-stirring melodies at Faderland. During the evening Mr. F. Hune delivered (to judge from its effects upon his auditors) an eloquent and impassioned speech, which was applauded with three hearty cheers.
The ceiling and front of the gallery of the Hall was tastefully decorated with wreaths and evergreens, and directly fronting the stage were the words “Gut Heil,” the Turner’s greeting, arranged in evergreens.
Late in the evening a committee, who had been engaged in searching for the musicians, succeeded in obtaining the services of two or three performers from a band engaged at another place. Dancing was then commenced by those remaining, and kept up till a late hour. As, however, “the wee sma’ hours” crept on apace, the guests gradually departed. The Apollo Rooms were finally deserted, and the inauguration ceremonies of the new Hall of the Turners of Williamsburgh were brought to a termination.
