26 August 1857
“The Recent Failures”
The heavy bank failures reported yesterday have startled the community from its propriety, and have given some color to the prognostications which alarmists have for some time past repeatedly indulged in. Men who usually have received money without taking the trouble to count it, and who have been accustomed to put change in their pockets without looking at it, now scrutinize narrowly every bill you hand them, even if it be but a $1; and then meditate profoundly upon the position of the bank which the bill represents, to satisfy themselves that it has not failed, before giving you a receipt and closing the transaction.
Well, we have no fault to find with this. A solitary failure or two, or even half a dozen, are cheaply purchased if they lead to a more general habit of caution and prudence on the part of business men in money matters.—The failure of Thompson, the Bank Note Reporter man, has particularly awakened surprise. His business was so extensive, and his transactions known to be in many instances so lucrative, that there was hardly any one of whose stability a more confident opinion was generally entertained. He has been known to clear eighty or a hundred thousand by single operation in stocks, and his business sagacity was believed to be such as to preclude the idea of his losing materially.
At the same time, we cannot see the slightest ground for adopting the theory of the panic makers, that these isolated failures will lead to anything like a general confusion. The fact simply is, that a gang of speculators in Wall street labor hard day after day to overreach each other—and now a few of them have won to such an extent that others have been ruined; that is, for the present. It is a mere game of see-saw, however. The men who are now down will probably retrieve their losses at the expense of some of the others, and so on indefinitely. As long as the crops are plentiful, and exports consequently large, the general community is beyond the reach of material adversity
The failure of a tradesman may injure an entire town, for nearly every employer of labor in the place may lose money by his stoppage. But the bankruptcy of a Wall street speculator only envolves loss to some others of the same genus, and a gain to others. The whole thing is confined to the Stock Exchange, and, unless interested parties can succeed in causing a panic, there is really no reason why the world outside should be affected by the ups and downs which befall these gamblers in stocks.
