26 August 1857
“What Is It That Disgraces The Fire Department?”
Our Volunteer Fire Department receives, and that most deservedly, a large measure of praise for its zealous and indefatigable labors in extinguishing the numerous conflagrations which occur from time to time. Courage, industry, humanity, are among the virtues which the citizens at large freely attribute to the members of the Department; and for the sake of these virtues they are disposed to wink in a great measure at the equally glaring fault which is exhibited quite as frequently –we allude to a want of discipline, and an exaggerated esprit du corps which involves whole companies in the fights and squabbles provoked by the turbulent rowdyism of a few.
It is not hard to find a flock among which there will not be some black sheep—and it is no disparagement to any company, that a few disorderly characters have contrived to procure admission into it, or at least to have a kind of out-door connection with it, as hangers-on, runners, or something of the kind. Probably the utmost care on the part of the officers of a company could hardly eradicate this evil, and no one would censure more freely than ourselves the injustice of blaming the company for their misdeeds.
But what we do blame companies and their officers for, is their tardiness to denounce these hangers on and to repudiate their acts. Instead of which, if a fight be provoked by these fellows, the decent members feel compelled, in order to sustain the reputation of the Company, to join in, and thus bring a disgrace on the department.
There is hardly a false alarm of fire, and hardly an excursion of a company, at which some rowdies and fighting men do not endeavor, too often with success, to “get up a muss.” Instead of arresting these fellows on the first symptoms of disorderly conduct, the members suffer the disturbance to go on and ferment, until as they think the honor of the company is involved in the victory of one or another of the belligerents: and so they join in, and a general row is the result.
At the present time there are companies either suspended or in danger of suspension, the great majority of whose members are in the main peaceable and law-abiding men, but on whom a disgrace has been brought by the conduct of rowdies who have “hung around” the company’s house, and so fastened the discredit of their acts on the company, which has not the moral courage to denounce them and disavow their proceedings.
The worst enemies of the Fire Department are cherished within its own bosom—they are the men who avail themselves of every reunion of firemen to excite a disturbance.
