26 June 1857
“Enforcement Of The New License Law”
The views of Judge Morris on the License Law, as reported in the Times of Wednesday, have elicited a great deal of attention; and the general impression among those competent to form an opinion is that the bearings of the law are correctly stated by his Honor. So far as we have been able to ascertain, the justices of this city have resolved to square their conduct by this dictum of the County Judge. Hence, if complaints of the violation of the law by Liquor dealers are made before them, instead of citing the parties to appear, and trying the question of their guilt or innocence, they will remit the papers to the prosecuting officer (query what officer?) in order to afford that functionary an opportunity of proceeding against the offenders to recover the penalties in civil suit. So far as the dealers in liquor are concerned, therefore, it is plain that the law is practically a dead letter. 
With regard to the sale of liquors on Sunday, and the adulteration of liquor, the law provides for the conviction of offenders for misdemeanor, and the justices will act accordingly. It will be their duty to hear and adjudicate on all charges of this nature preferred before them. We think, as we have before said, that the prohibition of sale of liquor on Sunday is too absolute; but we cannot too strongly urge the necessity of enforcing the clause forbidding adulteration. 
The position of the whole matter seems to be this.—A drunkard in the streets is a public nuisance, and a disorderly character, just as he was before the law passed, and he can be dealt with accordingly. A man who sells liquor on Sundays, or who adulterates his liquor with poisonous or deleterious drugs, may be convicted of a criminal offence. But he who sells liquor without a license can only be reached through the tedious medium of a civil suit, which it is nobody’s business in particular to institute. Consequently those who have obtained licenses have bought pieces of waste paper, at $30 each; and during six days out of seven, we see no reason to believe that the traffic in intoxicating liquors will be more restricted than it has been, at any time since the Temperance people let go the license law, their bird in hand, in their eagerness to clutch the two in the bush—viz, Prohibition.
