26 May 1857
“Croaking a Crash”
Meanwhile the West is every day becoming insolvent, and the crash which the present high prices fore-shadow is slowly approaching us.—[N.Y. Herald, May 28.
There are some predictions whose utterance accomplished their fulfillment. And if the above prediction is verified in the next few years, the prophets of evil who are so diligent in sounding the imaginary alarm may thank themselves for the result. Every one conversant with the West knows that the past two or three years have been unfortunate years for crops. The prospects, thus far, are fine for the present year. Scant crops have kept money comparatively scarce with the farmers, and they hold the purse of the whole mercantile and commercial world. The present year is important to the West. An artificial alarm might so tie the hands of western traders that the whole country should suffer.
Fortunes were made in 1837 as well as lost. Men of wealth, who had no uncertain debtors, and plenty of money, were not only safe, but picked up fortunes by buying for a song at the forced sales of insolvents. We can point to millionaires who bought there at nominal prices, and hence their wealth. Let a few capitalists who have the money and the facilities now ready for such disaster, raise the alarm—push all Western merchants, drive every man of moderate capital into insolvency—let predictions be muttered withal that this is but “the beginning of the end,” and they can build up fortunes for themselves excelling the wealth of many principalities of the old world. Wealth thus gotten may be kept, but we want no share in such results, nor in such agency as to their cause.
Land is commanding high prices in many portions of the West. Is that a sign of ruin? When a man can pay 15 or 20 dollars an acre for rich prairie land, make his fences, buy his seed and harvest his crop, and when at the first harvest, or at furthest at the second, he can cut down by machinery such a crop as will pay for the land, improvements and cultivation—when such things are done, and that is the fact, there is little danger of the Western farmers ruining the country. If a verdant one buys a town lot in some cypress swamp, small, fronting on two streets, and in the purchase gets sold, he ought not to discourage all legitimate traffic.
The West is the grain-bearing field of the continent, and no revulsion can permanently injure it. Efforts to produce a panic will react in their worst effects upon the East itself.
