26 May 1857
“Whence is the City Power?”
In law affairs, a client with boundless inherent supplies of arrogance, and tolerable supplies of cash, can get up a respectable case, upon any point he chooses to make. Most lawyers are full of gab, to the brim. All they need is a client to start them, and they will spin out any quantity of arguments, precedents, reasonings,--showing for or against, just as the aforesaid client commands.
All municipal authority, that of Alderman, Mayor, Heads of Departments, Police, Local Improvements, Water, River-Shores, Ferries, Gas, Markets, Stages, Railroads, &c., &c., comes from the State—from the people represented by the Assembly, Senate, and Governor. All the offices and officers of the just named category, and all the subordinates of the same, go back to State Power. The State Power again has for its direct guide and controller, the Constitution of the State, indirectly also the Constitution of the United States.
The chartered existence of New York city began about 1640 by official grants from the Dutch company for settling the New Netherlands, and by authorised grants from the Dutch Governors sent over by the company. Other grants, charters, confirmations, modifications, &c., followed, from English governors. Dongan (a papist creature of James 2d,) Andross, Sloughter, and many more. The revolution of ’76 followed—a new constitution was made—but the official city existence of New York has undergone no very important or radical changes, except those interior ones arising from universal suffrage. City offices and officers, and their powers (we may truly say their greediness, inefficiency, and arrogance,) have remained pretty much the same for two hundred years—we mean essentially the same—in principle almost identically the same. All, without one single exception, trace back their authority to State Power or its equivalent.
For years, every session of the Legislature at Albany has been marked by more or less resumption of prerogatives previously granted to the Mayor and Common Councils of Brooklyn, and of New York—and by the modification, and the granting of new ones. Until now, under the reign of Fernando Wood, nobody ever questioned the State power.
The case of the New Police Law does not turn at all upon the point whether the popularly elected City authorities in Brooklyn and N.Y. shall have control of the Police—it turns upon the point whether the long established principle of all municipal authority finding its warrant in State grants shall be abrogated by summary violence or not. It is a very simple question.
Of the constitutionality of the New Police Law, and the bounden duty of all the municipal officers who have to do therewith, paying prompt obedience to it, we do not believe (outside of blowing partisans, organ-grinders, and the shallow crowd of followers who have no ideas of their own,)—we do not believe there are two capable and learned judges in the State of New York who would hesitate to decide those points as beyond question.
As to the excellence of the law itself—that is another matter. It is intended to take the Police out of the filthy vortex of small politics; will it succeed in that? Will it not be merely giving us the dose from the right hand instead of the left hand? Now, in Brooklyn and New York, more than half the Policemen are incompetent persons—their offices notoriously given them as rewards for services done before and during election day, in fighting, bribing, caucusing, for the officers who give them their appointments—for “the party.” We say, at present, in Brooklyn and New York, an appointment on the Police force is given to a man for “services rendered,” in the ward and city political scrambles, and without any reference at all to the good of the public. All this is and has been notorious.
The hydrophobia editors of the Fernando Wood faction denounce last winter’s Legislature at Albany as a collection of all crime and darkness—but that body was in reality about the same as any Legislature, and not a bit worse than the average. We have no doubt that the New Police Law arose out a desire on its part to give this section of the State a Superior Police, free from the odor of petty ward contests and electioneerings.
But the audacious attempt of Wood is in a fair way to be put down; and we hope the lesson will not be lost upon Mayor Powell.
