26 October 1857
“The Shrievalty”
A serious question exists in the minds of many persons as to the eligibility of the present Sheriff, MR. BURDETT STRYKER, to be elected to that office for a new term. The several provisions in the statute book are in the following terms—
[text omitted]
The questions here presented are plainly these: Is the appointee of Governor King referred to in the constitutional provision? Is he merely executing the duties of the office until the vacancy is supplied, without incurring the disabilities which attach to the officer who has served the entire term? Inasmuch as there is no legal provision more directly referring to appointees of this class, the intent of the act must be taken to determine the issue. Sound legal gentlemen assume that the section first above quoted has reference only to officers elected by the people; that the appointee, although de facto the officer, is such solely to prevent the cessation of the business, and to obviate what would otherwise be a public injury. They further insist, that the words “liabilities, duties, and obligations” in the last section, in no wise imply disabilities. On the other hand, lawyers of equal repute claim, that whether elected by the people, or appointed by the Governor, the acceptance of the position, and the performance of its duties, whether for one month or the full term, is all the same. Further, that the law recognizes no part of a term, so far as the tenure of the place is concerned.
It may be seen that the subject is beset with perplexing doubts, such as may require judicial decision. A report is current that Justice Bronson has given an opinion favorable to Mr. Stryker, and that other legal representatives of the same high standing concur therein. We do not believe that Mr. S. desires to place himself in a position to create litigation, or in any manner interpose obstacles to prejudice public business. There is ample time, however, for those interested to be satisfied as to the real state of the question.
The contemptible innuendoes and filthy abuse of the Eagle in the premises, display a depth of depravity that is delightfully emblematical of the brutal nature of its chief scribbler. Neither of the Candidates for the office of Sheriff have any other than a desire to rest upon their merits. Foul words never frighten, but excite disgust.
