26 October 1857
“The Crisis—No Class Exempt”
Death is said to be the most impartial of all things—falling alike on rich and poor, high and low. The present monetary crisis, while it fastens itself upon us like “Grim Death” is almost as impartial—pervading all classes and showing neither fear nor favor. Classes which in other seasons have thriven, despite the suffering around them, at present all feel the full stress of the times as well as their neighbors. Take the lawyers, for instance. Many large merchants and business men who have been in the habit of employing members of the legal fraternity, at fixed salaries, to attend to their necessary affairs, have failed and those who have not, impelled by motives more or less disinterested, decline to press their delinquent debtors in such times as these. So the lawyers who are not lucky enough to be made assignees, trustees or receivers, reap but little benefit from the common calamity.
All kinds of amusements, which held their own, for a time, are suffering most severely. Houses half-full, actors at half-salaries, scenery second hand and dingy, show that the theatres, no less than the merchants feel the monetary pressure. Lectures, too, are at a discount. They will be few and far between, this winter, and many a needy litterateur and seedy clergyman who was in hopes of ekeing out, as usual, a scanty livelihood in this manner, will be sadly disappointed. Private schools, of all kinds, from the classical academy to the music and dancing schools, are diminishing in numbers, and teachers find a woeful deal of trouble and dunning necessary in collecting their bills for the remainder.
All kinds of fancy work are at a discount. The keepers of jewelry stores, book emporiums, print-shops, Daguerrotype galleries and the like, feel like Othello—their “occupation” is “gone.” True all this is but temporary, but while the crisis lasts, the fact cannot be disputed. A hard customer is this same panic. He shows neither “fair field” nor “favor.”
