26 September 1857
“The Democratic Assembly Nominations”
The Democratic Assembly Conventions met yesterday afternoon and made the following nominations—
The first Assembly District Convention met at Lohmann’s Military Hall in East New York, Judge Emmons in the Chair, and Mr. Ames of the 18th ward acting as Secretary.
There were four candidates in the field, for whom the votes were divided, on the informal ballot, as follows:
John A Voorhees, of Flatlands					14
Joseph Wilson, of the 8th Ward					9
N.R. Stimpson, New Lots					4
--Ames, of the 18th Ward					3
On the formal ballot Mr. Voorhees received 16, and Mr. Joseph Wilson 14 votes, when Mr. John A. Voorhees, of Flatlands, was declared unanimously nominated. Mr. V. has served one term in the Assembly, and made a very good representative.
IId District—Comprising the First, Sixth and Twelfth wards: Moses S. Beach, of the New York Sun, who is after the Union Ferry Co.
IIId District—Comprising the Fourth and Tenth wards, adjourned until Saturday afternoon. Supervisor Samuel Smith and Captain Farnsworth are the candidates before the Convention.
IVth District—Comprising the Second, Third and Fifth Wards. David M. Chauncey.
Vth District—Comprising the Nineth and Eleventh Wards, adjourned till next Wednesday after taking four ballots. Wm. T. Mills and Felix Campbell are the candidates before the Convention.
VIth District—In this district we have, as we stated yesterday, two candidates in the field—John Hartford and Edmund Driggs. 
VIIth District—The delegates for the VIITh District, comprising the Seventh, Fifteenth, Sixteenth and Nineteenth Wards, met, and after organizing, adjourned one week.
The above nominations, so far as made, reflect credit on the party.
Although as a general thing we prefer to see Brooklyn nominations given to men whose interest as well as mere residence connect them with Brooklyn rather than New York, yet we are glad to see Mr. Beach on the track. He owes his nomination to his consistent advocacy of the rights and interests of the mechanics and poorer classes, among whom the circulation of his paper lies. He is nominated, not so much on political issues as in consequence of his well known sentiments on local matters—and we are glad to see the principle thus inaugurated of selecting candidates expressly on their views of local subjects.
We have often had occasion to reflect on particular votes of Supervisor Smith, who sometimes suffers his economy to degenerate into parsimony; but this is a fault which can well be pardoned at Albany, where we have so little of it, and so much of the opposite extreme. We should be pleased, therefore, on the whole, to see the patriarch of the 10th ward adopted by the delegates of the 3d district. Capt. Farnsworth, his opponent, we understand to be a returned Nicaraguan filibuster, of fair military and social reputation.
David M. Chauncey, the nominee in the 4th district, is a builder, in good circumstances, president of an insurance company, and a thoroughly respectable man.
Both Mr. Hanford and Mr. Driggs, of the 6th district, are well known to our readers. The former has sat for two sessions already in the Legislature, and if returned again his experience will give him weight in the deliberations of the Kings County delegation.
