27 August 1857
“[On the Sheriffalty Election]”
We accidentally met this morning with a copy of the first number of a new German paper published in this District, called the Long Island Volksblatt, and edited by Mr. Hensler, a name which many of our citizens are familiar with. The new paper is Democratic in its tendencies, and rushes with all the ardor of a new recruit into the local political issues of the day. It contains an editorial on the Sheriffalty candidacy, and a communication on the vacancy in the 15th ward aldermanship, both of which deserve notice.
With regard to the Sheriffalty the editor considers Mr. Allen, Ald. Del Vecchio, Judge Garrison, and all the candidates except Mr. Remsen, off the track. Of the latter, he speaks very highly, and commends him to the support of the Germans. Against Mr. Garrison he is particularly bitter. He describes Mr. G as a man six feet high, with a very dark, black countenance, a troublesome nature, and very foul in his language—always referring to the Germans as “Dutchmen.” Mr. G., he adds, is of a grasping, covetous disposition, and it will be very unfortunate for the German population if he should receive the nomination and be elected. Mr. Allen and Ald. Del Vecchio fortunately escape the editorial rasping.
The communication in regard to the 15th ward vacancy is decidedly rich, especially in view of what has recently appeared in this journal respecting the gentleman whose claims to official distinction are thus heralded forth to the public:
The Special Election in the 13th Ward.
To the Editor of the Long Island Volksblatt
Is there no German who is worthy of being an Alderman, and who will be a good colleague to Alderman Snyder? The Germans have long enough played the second fiddle in the ward. It is now time for them to play the first. The number of Germans in the 15th ward is so large as to enable them to have one Alderman of their own nation. The residents of the ward have to talk with their Alderman, and it is not every German who is able to express himself freely in the English language. And those who can talk English have hitherto been very often obliged to put their hands in their pockets when they have had to do with their Alderman. That is a fact.
But what German of the 15th ward shall be our candidate? There are a great many of us who are fit for the office, but who is the best? For our own part we suggest to our residents for alderman the name of Alois Dygert, Advocate Anhalt, of Devoe street. Alois Dygert is a respectable man. He is not a coward, he bears a high and untarnished character. He is a friend of the people. He has a good theoretical and practical education, and will discharge the duties of an alderman as a man of honor should. Now write on your banners. FOR ALDERMAN, ALOIS DYGERT!
SEVERAL DEMOCRATIC ELECTORS O THE 15TH WARD
The election in the 15th ward comes off on the 15th of September, so that it is high time for the opposition candidates to take the field, if indeed any one is bold enough to encounter Mr. Dygert. Having been rather severe on that individual a while ago, we feel some little satisfaction in making him amends by taking the trouble to translate and inset gratuitously the above testimonial to his merits.
