27 November 1857
“Yesterday”
Yesterday was a fine day for Thanksgiving—cold, but clear and sunshiny—just such weather as would delight a genuine New Englander. The holiday passed off quietly and pleasantly, the various offices and stores were closed and business, generally, was suspended. Services were held, in the morning, at many of the churches and the attendance was very good. There was little drunkenness to be seen, and no disorder, of any kind.
The children of the Industrial School, to the number of about seventy-five, attended Rev. Dr. Jocelyn’s church, corner Eleventh and South 3d streets, under the direction of Rev. Mr. Johnson, City Missionary. The sermon was well adapted to their apprehension, and was listened to with a very creditable degree of attention. On returning to their school, in North 2d street, they were served with an excellent dinner, furnished them by the kind-hearted and efficient lady managers. The contributions must have been liberal, to judge from the appearance of the table. The cheer was generous, indeed. From the monster turkies, that crowned the feast down to the lesser delicacies nothing was wanting to complete a model dinner. It would have warmed the heart of the least philanthropic to watch the happy faces of the participants in this, perhaps the pleasantest feature of the day. We hope that, in the mean time, our readers will bear in mind the Entertainment to come off the 30th inst., at the Equestrian Institute, for the benefit of the school. Let there be a large attendance—one worthy of the charitable object for which it was gotten up. 
The Lewis Guards, Capt. Randolph Allen, proceeded to Harlem on a target excursion. They numbered about 35 muskets and made a fine display. “The Meek Man with the Iron Cane,” a character tolerably familiar to Williamsburghers who have read any of the Zephyr reports, accompanied the “Guards,” and was the observed of all observers. A bountiful collation was served up, on their return at the Eastern District House.
A party of Fantasticals calling themselves the South 3d street Rangers, paraded the streets to the intense delight of the juveniles. They made a comical display. A juvenile party numbering 20 muskets and denominating themselves the “Allen Guard,” also paraded and made a good appearance.
Altogether, the day passed off in a most satisfactory and enjoyable manner.
