27 October 1857
“The Arch Schemer”
So far as the municipality of New York is concerned, there is but one man of destiny, and his name is Fernando Wood. He is the chief actor in the drama; the principal figure in the picture; the prime mover in the great political chess game; the master spirit that in one shape or another manages to exercise  a mighty influence over if not absolutely to direct and control all the complex machinery of the city-government.
The history of this man’s public life is one of the most singular on record. Elected Mayor of New York against the most violent opposition, founded not merely upon political grounds, but upon his more than questionable personal antecedents—he entered upon its duties with a spirit and energy that astonished the old fogies, accustomed to the Dutch-governor-like administrations of former officials, silenced for a time the virulent abuse with which he had been assailed, and converted into a genuine admiration the doubt and apprehension with which many good and law-abiding citizens regarded his installation. Everybody is familiar with the wonderful éclat with which he commenced his course. People thought they had found in him the political Hercules who was to cleanse the Augean Stable of corruption, who was to root out vice from its strongholds, who was to redress public and private grievances, and whose thorough and sweeping reforms were to inaugurate a new era in the history of tax-ridden and crime accursed New York. Bye-gones were forgotten. The past career of the man was no longer remembered. Everybody was ready to give the “Model Mayor” full credit for his specious attempts at reform. The journals that had been loudest in his condemnation were willing to greet his opening measures for the production of a better state of affairs with generous applause. And to sustain him in the assumption of doubtful powers with that end in view. Wood basked for a time in the free ___ of public favor. Never had public man a better chance to retrieve the past, and build up an enduring reputation for the future. 
	How this fair seeming and elusive promise ended, we all know. Before long things fell back upon the old track, and people began to see how they had been blinded and swindled by the hypocritical pretensions of an artful and unscrupulous demagogue. Once securely seated on the municipal throne, with the enginery of power at his command, and the true nature of the man—his ambitions, his utter recklessness of principle, his deep-laid artifice in forming plots, and his defiant daring in carrying them out—became apparent. The mask which he wore at first soon lost its power to delude the intelligent, sagacious men who had the interests of the city at heart began to watch his career with renewed alarm.
That such apprehensions have been fully justified by the result none need to be told. Under the Wood regime official corruption has increased and tax-payers have suffered in consequence, to an extent almost incredible. Crime in all its phases, flourishes undisturbed, unblushing, rampant. Life and property have grown more and more insecure, until Lynch law itself would prove, one would think, almost a boon. Murder stalks abroad unpunished, outrages of every conceivable description fill the columns of the daily journals, and bull-necked brutes rule the pave. We are beholding now the beautiful finale of the beneficent administration of the “Model Mayor.”
Wood is again a candidate for the office and in all probability he will be re-elected. Men who are behind the scenes and know how these things are done harbor no sort of doubt as to the result. The people of New New York appear to bear no little resemblance to eels—they are used to being skinned. They seemingly cherish a chronic despair of ever obtaining a good city government or an honest man in office, and accordingly, with a philosophic resignation which we cannot but admire, have given over struggling and calmly submit to their inevitable fate. The very boldness and unmitigated effrontery of Wood also tells in his favor with the mass, and that in no small degree. It is human nature to cherish a secret admiration at huge rascality, where petty peculation would only excite contempt. Successful scheming, however unscrupulous in its nature and objects, always carries with it a certain prestige. Success, according to the modern code of morals, sanctifies all things.
Fernando’s latest move, however, is so very suspicious and significant in its nature that, we opine, it will cause some little dubious shaking of the head, even among his friends and supporters. We refer to his message of Friday morning last. Certain passages in that very remarkable document were subjected to very searching criticism, and very earnest reprobation by the opposition journals, and their dangerous tendencies pointed out. But the full drift and purport of those poisonous sentences does not seem as yet to have fully dawned upon the minds of the metropolitan journalists—they are understood a great deal better by thousands of moody, dissatisfied, idle men out of employ who are ready for any ___, who are regardless of the laws as any red republican of ’48 and who only want the occasion and the leader to repeat and surpass the popular excesses which in times like these have disgraced so many communities. Those words will be understood better, unless a merciful Providence interposes, during the coming winter.
It is an old cry—that of the poor against the rich—of the inequality of the distribution of property, and all the cant terms of Communism, but it will always prove a taking one so long as poverty and demagogues exist together. It is ominous that such a cry should be raised already, in a new country like this, but it is more ominous still that its first utterance should come from the lips of a sworn official and defender of the law. Twenty years ago, the people of New York, grown riotous by starvation, broke open warehouses and whitened the muddy streets with flour. Well it will be for us during the months to come, if they be not reddened with blood.
