27 October 1857
“The Shrievalty Question”
Were the question of Mr. Stryker’s eligibility for election to the office of Sheriff a mere party question, we should be content to let the Eagle and Star fight it out between themselves; but when it is threatened that the controversy may be the means of plunging the office and its business into the labyrinthine mazes of a second Devlin and Conover suit, we deem it high time that the public should know how the matter really stands.
It is not contended that there is any law of the State which inhibits Mr. Stryker from being elected. If he is not constitutionally debilitated, he is eligible beyond a doubt. The whole matter in issue, therefore, is narrowed down to the question of whether Mr. Stryker’s case comes under the following provision of the Constitution—
[extract omitted]
Does Mr. Stryker fairly come under the designation of a Sheriff, as provided for in this section. If so, he shall hold office three years, for this is indissolubly linked with the ineligibility clause. If the one clause does not apply to Mr. Stryker, the other cannot.
Crocker, in his “Duties of Sheriffs,” quotes the above section, and adds—BUT THE LIMITATION OF THE OFFICE TO ONE TERM DOES NOT APPLY TO THE CASE OF A PERSON APPOINTED BY THE GOVERNOR TO PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE OFFICE DURING A VACANCY THEREIN.
Is Mr. Burdett Stryker a Sheriff within the meaning of the Constitution? The power to create a Sheriff rests with the people only. The Constitution does not give the Governor power to appoint a Sheriff, nor even to fill the office during the balance of an unexpired term. He can only appoint “a fit person” to discharge the duties pro tempore, until the next election, when the people elect a Sheriff. This is clear from the Revised Statutes—
[extract omitted]
By section 52, the above is made to include also cases like that of Mr. Stryker, where the vacancy was caused by death.
The question is, does the performance of the duties of Sheriff make a man a Sheriff within the meaning of the Constitution? Had Mr. Ryerson died a week or month before election day, and the Governor left the Under Sheriff to do the duties of the office, by not making an appointment, would that have disqualified Mr. Sparks from being elected for the ensuing term? If there were no Under Sheriff, and the Governor failed to appoint a “fit person,” the duties of the office of Sheriff would then devolve on the Coroner. Would any one contend that this performance of duties would make the Coroner a Sheriff?
But we are not left to conjecture or inference in regard to whether the disability of the elected Sheriff to serve a second term inheres to the appointee of the Governor. In the Constitutional convention this very point was raised, and Abijah Mann, Jr., and others of legal ability spoke on the subject. A proposal was made to explicitly include the appointee in the disability attaching to the Sheriff; but this was refused by the Convention, on the express ground that the appointee did not serve a full term of three years, but only till the next election, and hence it would be unfair to subject him to the disability to serve again.
Our object in publishing the above is to remove doubt and misconception, and to let the contest between the candidates for Sheriff be fought on the merits of the men alone. It is well that the point has been mooted, so that it might be set at rest, and that every elector may give his vote for the man he prefers, without fear that any contest will arise for the possession of the office, other than that which the ballot box will decide.
