28 October 1857
“The Ferry Question”
The Sun this morning publishes the replies to the letter addressed to the candidates for Senate and Assembly, a few days since, relative to reduced rates of ferriage, &c. Nearly all the nominees have responded, and in the affirmative, of course.
We have not space to reproduce the replies, nor in fact does the Sun print any of them entire, except that of Mr. Britton, Mr. Beach’s opponent, which is refers to in its editorial column as “ambiguous”—when in fact it seems to us that Mr. B. sets forth his views with more detail and far more distinctness than most of the candidates. It is very pardonable in Mr. Beach to desire Mr. Britton’s defeat; but we think he would have exhibited better taste and greater magnanimity in letting Mr. Britton’s letter speak for itself.
With regard to the other candidates we are informed that Mr. Hanford did not receive the circular until the very day on which an answer was demanded, and consequently his reply did not reach the committee in time for publication with the rest. This letter also takes ground in favor of cheap ferriage.
Mr. Atwater, from whom the committee say they have received no reply, delivered a speech at a ratification meeting in the 16th ward, as reported in this paper some days since, in which he declared himself in favor of a law regulating the ferries.
Mr. David M. Chauncey, Democratic candidate in the 4th district, authorises us to state that he is in favor of cheap ferriage, and in fact considers himself and the whole Democratic ticket pledged thereto by the resolution adopted by the mass ratification meeting last week. But he declines to regard it as his duty to reply to questions addressed to him by a committee consisting chiefly of political opponents, and of men living out of his district. The Convention which nominated him have a right to put queries to him, but he does not acknowledge any responsibility to other bodies.
It will then be seen that the omission of names from the list of replies affords no indication whatever that the candidate is opposed to cheap ferriage. In fact, these written pledges are utterly valueless, as they are always capable of two interpretations. The best guarantee for the needed ferry reform would be for the American and Republican parties to pass resolutions at their mass meetings similar to that passed by the Democrats in the City Park. Then we should have all three political parties pledged to carry out the necessary reform, and our representatives at Albany would not dare to delay compliance with so universal a demand on the part of the people.
