28 October 1857
“Williamsburgh Unpaid Assessments”
In noticing the remarkable effusion which conveyed to the gratified public of the 18th and 14th Wards the delightful assurance that Mr. Demas Strong had consented to relinquish his lucrative and honorable employments and engagements in our midst, and leave the city for the city’s good, repair to Albany, and purify our State administration, cause laws to be passed charging our debts upon other people, and perform other laudable and meritorious acts—in noticing this document, we contented ourselves with a reference to one or two of the beauties with which it abounds, intending to leave the letter to the shelter of that oblivion which will on the day after election engulf its author.
A second perusal of Mr. Strong’s letter, however, exhibits mis-statements so glaring that their very boldness may mislead the reader, and which therefore demand exposure.
Mr. Strong states that for a large part of the Williamsburgh debts, judgments with heavy costs ave been rendered against us, “and more are to follow.” These liabilities, he tells us, arise out of improvements the benefit of which will enure not to us but to those who come after us. Consequently, Mr. Strong thinks we want additional legislation to relieve us from our debts in some easier way than the old fashioned plan, namely, paying them. The only hint as to how we can be relieved is contained in the sentence that “property in this section of the city should be placed on an equal footing with property in the lower wards.” If this is not merely an unmeaning generality, it signifies that the debts of old Williamsburgh should be assessed on the Western District equally with the Eastern—a proposal against which we apprehend Mr. Strong’s colleagues from the other part of the city will have something to say when he and they meet on the floor of the Assembly.
Mr. Strong’s assertions are as untrue as his proposed remedy is dishonest. No more “judgments with heavy costs” can be recovered against the city, as Mr. Strong would have known had he seen the “Act relative to the payment of expenses for Williamsburgh local improvements,” passed by the late Legislature. By reading this law Mr. Strong would also have seen that the old debts for the local improvements of the late city and village of Williamsburgh are in process of being ascertained, investigated and provided for, by a law which was passed with the unanimous approval of the people concerned, and which entirely obviates the necessity for any patent scheme which Mr. Strong may have invented for relieving the district of her obligations. A little reflection, too, would have shown Mr. Strong that the improvements do not enure so much to the benefit of the future as of the past and present. The opening, grinding and paving of the streets on which we daily walk, the erection of the wells and pumps from which we draw our daily supplies of water, are surely benefits now accruing and which have accrued, and which therefore it is quite right that the present generation should pay for—which in fact ought to have been paid for long ago.
But leaving M. Strong’s buncombe protestations about what he will do—if the people give him a chance—let us see what Messrs. Hasbrouck, Cotrel and spooner, the Commissioners appointed under the Act above referred to, have been doing.
They entered upon the active prosecution of their duties about three months ago. They have to deal with about 150 separate accounts, consisting of assessments for wells and pumps, opening streets, grading and paving, &c., the proceedings in some of which extend as far back as 1836. They have had to ascertain, in the first instance, what proceedings have been taken in each matter, and inquire into the regularity of said proceedings at every step—what the authorities did, and what the contractors and commissioners did, whether all the necessary notices were duly published, and if any informality or neglect occurred at any stage of the business. Then they have to make an informal report to the Supreme Court, setting forth all the facts, and give ten days notice to parties concerned to appear. After hearing all suggestions and objections, and if they deem it necessary amending their report thereby, they file a second and formal report with the County Clerk, and give ten days notice to parties concerned to file remonstrances. Then an application is made to the Supreme Court to confirm said report. The Court, after examining the report and remonstrances, if any, may confirm the whole or any part of the report. When the whole is completed to the satisfaction of the Court, the assessment becomes valid, and every fault and irregularity in the original proceedings is covered. The unpaid balance of the assessment can then be collected by the Street Commissioner’s staff.
The number of cases already investigated is about 40, none of which are fully completed, but it is expected that they will be in the course of another month. In three or four months more the Commissioners expect to conclude their entire business.
