29 October 1857
“The Shrievalty Question—A Tempest in a Teapot”
The Eagle reproduces our article of Tuesday, with the remark that it is the only attempt at argument on Mr. Stryker’s behalf which has yet appeared. It proceeds to assert, on the strength of a verbal and unintentional error which we made in a hurry of copying the section of the State Constitution from some hasty notes, that we have deliberately forged and mutilated the records. We have much more reason to accuse the Eagle of mutilating our remarks, since it has cleverly contrived, by cutting off both the head and tail of the article, to represent us as an advocate of Mr. Stryker, who has resorted to the disgraceful expedient of falsification for the purpose of gulling the public on his behalf.
The falsity of this must be apparent to all who have read the article in question. We took up the subject, not as an advocate of Mr. Stryker or Mr. Remsen, but from a desire to see fair play between the rival aspirants—and that each might go before the people on his own merits, unaffected by legal quibbles. Where both men are so deservedly popular and respected as the two candidates for Sheriff, we prefer that the people should choose between them on their respective personal claims rather than that the result be influenced by subtle construction of law, and ingenious pettifogging distinctions. We are no more the advocate of Mr. Stryker in this matter, than the Eagle is the friend of Mr. Remsen, and that it certainly is not, though the patronage of the sheriff’s office which looms before it in the distance, may induce professions of its devotion to him. If Mr. Stryker is ineligible, no one was so much interested in keeping the fact a secret as Mr. Remsen, for the latter would then be elected, if he only polled half a dozen votes. Thus it follows, either that the Eagle is conscious of Mr. Stryker’s eligibility, and all its froth and rant of the past few days is insincere and hypocritical; or that it purposely threw itself in the way of Mr. Remsen’s interests, and let the cat out of the bag in regard to Mr. Stryker in time to prevent Mr. Remsen from being the only eligible candidate.
It is unnecessary for us to heap quotations together for the purpose of deciding whether Mr. Stryker is eligible or not. The whole thing lies in a nut shell. The Constitution renders a Sheriff ineligible for the next three years after holding office. If Mr. Stryker is Sheriff now, he cannot be Sheriff next year. That is the gist of the whole affair. 
The Constitution says Sheriffs shall be chosen by the people of the respective counties. Mr. Stryker was not so chosen. It is these men—those “chosen by the electors of their respective counties”—that are declared ineligible. This is the common sense reading of the section. When a vacancy occurs, another Sheriff is to be chosen by the people at the earliest opportunity—meanwhile the Governor is to appoint—not a Sheriff, but—“a fit person” to execute the duties of the office “until it is supplied” by those who only can supply it and create a Sheriff, namely the people.
It is true the law makes Mr. Stryker assume the liabilities and obligations of the office as well as its duties. But it nowhere entails on him Mr. Ryerson’s disabilities. The proof that Mr. Stryker does not succeed Mr. Ryerson, either de facto or de jure, is found in the fact that he cannot complete the term. If he was the Sheriff, in the same sense that Mr. Ryerson was, his term would not expire until 1859.
But Mr. Stryker signs himself Sheriff. So probably does the Eagle man call himself a gentleman; yet in neither case is the assumption a valid one. Mr. Stryker holds the same position with regard to the Shrievalty that Alderman Pierson does toward the Mayoralty in Mr. Powell’s absence—that of a mere temporary acting officer. It is preposterous to argue that Mr. Stryker inherits Mr. Ryerson’s legal disabilities, without his legal right to hold office for the balance of the term. The pecuniary and business liabilities and obligations of course devolve on him, but the Eagle has not—with all its boasted “array of documentary evidence”—produced a single provision which proves that Mr. Ryerson’s disabilities devolve on Mr. Stryker. Until this is done, it has made out no case whatever; and meanwhile we can afford to dismiss the subject, satisfied that Mr. Stryker would not have gone to the expense of a contest if he did not know himself to be eligible; and that Mr. Remsen’s friends would not work hard to give him a large vote, if they for a moment entertained the idea that his opponent was ineligible, in which case twelve votes would be just as valuable to Mr. Remsen as twelve hundred or twelve thousand, for he would necessarily be elected in any case, votes for Mr. Stryker being thrown away. But both candidates, and everybody else excepting perhaps the Eagle men, know better; and hence both candidates labor to obtain a large vote, knowing that both are equally eligible, and that the one who polls most will win.
