3 June 1857
“Henry C. Murphy”
We only wish all the appointments of the President and Senate of the United States were deserving of as perfect commendation, without a single draw-back, as this of Henry C. Murphy to the American Ambassadorship at the Hague. In the present state of things, Mr. Murphy would not only do credit to the United States at that place, but furthermore we say no better appointment could be made for London, Paris, Vienna, or Madrid. We say that America will have no more capable representative abroad any where than this man—and we prophesy that if his life is spared he will justify our words, and that he will yet be employed between his country and a first class foreign court.
Brooklyn knows Mr. Murphy hitherto merely as a successful party caucuser and manager—one of a class plenty north and south, who make of politics a fine game. But he has stuff in him that deserves a better field. In his line, he is a superior man. While still a youth, not more than twenty years old, Henry Murphy was possessed of fine talent. Brooklyn was then but a village. The writer of this remembers well the pleased surprise of young Murphy when he came into the “Long Island Patriot” office, and found himself to be adjudged the writer of the “prize story,” for a leading Philadelphia magazine. Seeing some time before the offer by the magazine, Henry had written a tale, “The Reformed,” and sent it on to compete with the rest. This was probably his first literary effort, at least of any consequence, and it met with flattering success for so young a person; for as we said, Murphy was at that time hardly more than a boy. Does he not recollect his visits to his friend Samuel E. Clements’ office? Does he not recollect the “carrying on,” the cigar-smoking, the animated political discussions, and the canvassing pro and con of some manuscript article intended for the “Patriot”? The writer of this was then a “devil,” only twelve or thirteen years old himself—and Henry Murphy, though not very much older, treated him with great indulgence, good-naturedly overlooking a great many boyish capers.
The penning of these few sentences carries us back to other times—to events and days altogether unknown to the busy and swarming crowds of modern Brooklyn. We can almost think we see the “Old Ferry,” and the rude horseboats crossing, and the pilot steering by the ancient tiller. We can almost think we see the rows of great elm trees shading Fulton street, and the unpaved sidewalks with plenty of grass. We would walk down “Love Lane,” and stand upon “Clover Hill,” and view the bay and river. We cannot resist the inclination to indulge in a few reminiscences.
Brooklyn was, as we have said, but a village, whose affairs were managed by “Trustees.” For a long while Gen. Jeremiah Johnson was President of these Trustees—another frequent President was Joseph Sprague. The officials used to meet in a chamber in the “Apprentices Library,” corner of Cranberry and Henry streets. The corner stone of this building had been laid by Lafayette. His celebrated visit to America happened just as the foundation of the “Apprentices Library” commenced. Lafayette being at that time invited to Brooklyn, among other places, it was resolved to request him to “lay the corner stone,” as it is called. The hero politely acquiesced, and all the school children in Brooklyn marching to the ground (among them the writer of this, at that period six or seven years old,) were helped into places, part of them in the lately excavated cellar. Among those who aided extempore in handing down the children was Lafayette himself; and the writer recollects well the childish pride he experienced in being one of those who were taken in the arms of Lafayette, and reached down by him to a standing place. All this was done that the children could have a good sight of that mysterious something of “laying the corner stone.” Doubtless it was thought then that the “Apprentices Library” would go down to future generations as an unequalled specimen of architecture.
The years made rapid changes not only in those children, but in every aspect of Brooklyn. Shortly it became an incorporated city; then the Common Council met in an immense room forming the upper story of “Hall’s Buildings,” corner of Fulton street and Cranberry. The building was burnt down at the great fire about ten years ago.
While still a village, Brooklyn had, for newspapers, two weeklys—one, the Long Island Star, by Col. Alden Spooner, father of E.B. Spooner, the proprietor of the now daily Evening Star—the other was called the Long Island Patriot, and was for many years conducted by Mr. Birch. After him the paper was owned and edited by Samuel E. Clements, a protege of John T. Bergen, Coe Downing, Mr. Brasher, and other local magnates of those days—and of him young Murphy was quite a favorite, and was always welcome to the editorial columns. Clements, a “good fellow” personally, was a great, lank, eccentric, hawk-nosed Quaker and Southerner (he often boasted of his Southern blood), and by the influence of his friends got the appointment of Postmaster. One of his performances, when about Brooklyn, created a great excitement—as the reader will understand when we narrate it.
Several gentlemen were very anxious to have the sculptured counterfeit presentment of Elias Hicks, the renowned preacher of “inner light,” who had then lately died, at Jericho, L.I. There was a good portrait of Elias, painted by Henry Inman, (that wonderful likeness—We can see it now!)—but the venerable old man was averse to such things, and would never allow a figure to be taken of himself, for a bust. So immediately coincident with the death of Elias, three persons, (of whom Clements, our Brooklyn editor, was one,) agreed to go down to Jericho, and by fair or clandestine means, disinter their subject and take a mould or cast from the face and head! They did so. From this mould a permanent one was made, and several busts of Elias were formed, quite perfect, it is said. But soon a quarrel arose, in reference to the division of the anticipated profits from the sale of the bust—for the whole thing was as much intended for a speculation, as to restore the likeness of Elias, and transmit it to posterity. The quarrel became at length so much exasperated that, either from sullen agreement, or in some crisis of excitement, the moulds and the few busts made from them were all smashed to pieces! Thus ended this singular and in some of its particulars revolting affair. 
As we have said, Clements was very tall, (six feet, two,) very thin, with a slow and peculiar gait in walking, long tailed blue coat with gilt buttons, and on his head in summer an enormous broad-brim’d low-crowned leghorn hat. Imagine him promenading the streets (then lanes, with trees,) of Brooklyn—or riding out in his skeleton sulkey. He always kept a horse, generally a pretty fast one; to his country subscribers out in Bushwick, New Lots, Flatlands, &c., carrying round his papers himself. Of a Sunday he used to go to the old Dutch Reformed Church (now in Joralemon street,) to which a narrow lane led up from Fulton street. Then it was an edifice of undressed grey stone, massive, homely, and grand: now it is a building patterned from the temple of Minerva, at Athens!
After a short reign, however, Clements got into difficulties, and disappeared west. Wm. Rockwell, (the Judge, who died last summer) followed as editor of the “Patriot”—which continued on with various ups and downs—and a change of name to the “Advocate.” At one time Mr. Arnold was its editor.
We suppose Henry C. Murphy who will herewith have the truth of all these reminiscences recalled to him—tried his hand in writing for this periodical the “Patriot,” frequently. His father, Judge Murphy, lived in the immediate neighborhood, Fulton street, near High, Henry, when young, was also a well-known member of the best scholastic societies of Brooklyn, especially at the Hamilton Literary Association. He was never much of a ready debater.
Some twenty-five years have passed away since then. Twenty-five years! Brooklyn, from a rural village of a few hundred inhabitants, has grown up to be a mighty, rich, and populous city—the third in the United States, and evidently destined to be one of the greatest in the world. Mr. Murphy, early taking to politics, viewing the work therein as an art,--in disposition cautious and conservative, without, (we think,) any profound faith in the people,--was not a man to remain in a subordinate position. He mixed among the managers of the Democratic party in Brooklyn, showed himself apt, keen, a perfect master, one fit to take the reins and handle them in the best way for “the party” as well as himself.
Henry Murphy’s first political success was his appointment as Corporation attorney. We have understood that it was in this place he laid the foundation of his fortune—for he is rich. In time, he was nominated and elected Mayor. Then he was chosen to represent the old First Congressional District at the Federal capital. He has also been in Congress a second time. Now he receives from the President a most responsible foreign mission.
Of quiet tone and manners, a thorough gentleman, averse to foppery and tinsel, courteous to all persons, generally taciturn, keen as a razor, not to be hoodwinked, or dazzled, or fooled, or led off from his aim—such are some of the leading mental and social characteristics of the personality of the new Ambassador. To his credit be it added, that his nomination is not the result of any manoeuvers or begging solicitations of his own—but is the voluntary offer of the President.
This country deeply needs such men as Henry Murphy to attend to her interests abroad. There is no diplomat, nor collection of diplomats—no camarilla—no schemer—no foreign regime or ministry—none, however circumventive, artful, or carefully disguised—but we would match Henry C. Murphy against them. He is a perfect man of the world, in the most favorable sense; for we believe that with this unsurpassed subtlety and “rapport” with all the various turnings of the mentality of others, Henry Murphy remains, at this day, really possessed of most or all of his youthful native good-meaning and interior honor. Torn, scorched, or sweltered, though they may have been in the wrathful hell of party politics—they must be there.
It is rumored that Mr. Murphy has for some time had in view an elaborate literary work, of Historical nature, which, perhaps, will be aided by this appointment—as Irving’s Lives of Columbus and His Companions were aided by his sojourn in Madrid. We believe that Henry Murphy could write full as good a History as any of Washington Irving’s; and we believe moreover that all relating to the Dutch settlement of New York and Long Island, and to the earlier growth of these parts of the State, to be among the most important of themes in American lore—and that they have not yet been treated in any large, profound, or vital spirit, by a writer competent to grasp them. If, as we have heard, these form the subject of the contemplated work, let it come, and let it be worthy of the case which it undertakes--for the theme is a great one. The Dutch, their mark here in America, their literature, grandeur, conscientiousness, immortal spirit of determination—their bloody wars with Spanish tyrants—their maritime daring—and their original knowledge of the principles of political equality, and confederation—These, as descending to America, and making the strongest stamp of all upon America, have yet had no historian, no sayer, or recorder. A grand race, those Dutch! those forefathers of this Island, and of Manhattan Island! full as grand as any of the antique races. Yet, so far, known only through some shallow burlesque, full of clown’s wit, like Irving’s Knickerbocker “history.”
Bon voyage to you! Henry C. Murphy—when you start. And may you fulfil our friendly anticipations, and return safe and sound to Brooklyn again. 
