3 November 1857
“Depleting the Jail”
At the meeting of the Board of Supervisors yesterday, Mr. Bergen introduced a resolution directing an application to the next Legislature for an act requiring all persons sentenced to imprisonment over five days, to be sent to the Penitentiary instead of the County Jail. As the sage of New Utrecht is ever devising some new plan to promote economy, this movement, it is reasonable to presume, is his latest effort for that purpose. Now there are several classes of persons to whom are adjudged short sentences, and to many of these imprisonment in the Penitentiary would be wrong. It has ever been considered a greater punishment to be detained in the prison at Crow Hill, than in the one in Raymond street. There are certain physical degradations inflicted, ordinarily meted only to perverse and hardened criminals; and to discriminate as to those most deserving, would impose a duty on the keeper not consistent with his duties. And apart from this, we know many instead of reforming under this treatment, would lose all moral force to resume their positions in society.
If economy is so imperative that other considerations must be overlooked, we may question the proposed saving to the Treasury. It is said that prisoners at Crow Hill are kept for ten cents per day, or one dollar for ten days. All the inmates there are required to labor in improving the premises. Any human being that toils, and is fed on food that costs but ten cents per day, must soon become physically disabled. At that price he cannot have either quantity or quality sufficient to humanely sustain life. The consequence is, that the culprit is discharged in an infirm state; he has no ambition to mend his ways, and he returns to his vices again, reckless of any issue that may close a profitless career. Thus it is that in too many prisons punishment is inflicted to degrade instead of reform. Hence instead of decreasing the number of minor criminals, there is an increase that at stated periods calls for an enlargement of the prisons. And if the economist can figure out a savings of two cents per day, by this system, he feels he has accomplished a triumph.
The savings in this instance may be ascertained in a moment. At Crow Hill, board for ten days $1: carriage hire for each prisoner $1,50; physical debility from poor food and labor, and consequently the speedy return of the culprit, $8—this last being the proportionate amount of each prisoner for salaries of officers and police justices. Here is a total of $5,50. At the Jail the items are thus; board ten days, $2,50; jailor’s fees, 75 cents; physical improvement and moral reformation at such a rate, that instead of being imprisoned every month, he is found there but twice a year, and perhaps not at all after the first infliction. So we have a total of $3,25 and improvement, against $5,50 and no improvement. 
But it is almost useless to discuss this subject with a view of convincing Mr. Bergen, or any of those who follow his leader-ship. The principle of reformation is but a mote in this philosophy, compared with a few pence saved by degrading and prostituting the miserable and misguided.
