3 October 1857
“The Failure of the Farmers and Citizens Bank”
The Farmers’ and Citizens’ Bank of Long Island, which closed its doors on Wednesday last, was founded in the year 1852, by C.W. Houghton, President, and a Board of Directors, mostly resident here. For the first half of its existence it prospered and had a fair reputation; but, some two or three years since, Mr. Houghton resigned the Presidency, in consequence of failure in his own private business affairs, he having, with several others of the Directors of the Bank, embarked in imprudent speculations for supplying the city with water and gas, none of which paid expenses, the water project succeeding no further than the procuring of a charter, and the gas pipes being laid down in so slovenly a manner, that after poisoning half the trees along the line of streets with the amount of leakage, they had to be taken up and replaced by the present directors.
Before quitting the Presidency of the Bank, he had certified some checks, amounting to an aggregate of about $40,000, which he was indiscreet enough not to get back at the time. This has been a source of embarrassment to the Bank ever since, though not a sufficient misfortune to hazard the stability of the institution. The matter was thrown into litigation and the managers of the Bank hoped to fight it off.
Meanwhile the failure of some of the Directors occurred, and still further depressed the Bank. The stock holders held several meetings, but seemed unable to agree on any definite plan of operations. Thus the movements of the managers were restricted and hampered, and though the Bank was not insolvent, it was practically powerless for negotiation.
The proximate cause of the failure was the refusal of the Broadway Bank of N.Y. to furnish aid; a balance of several thousand dollars being then due from the Farmers and Citizens Bank to the Broadway. In these times of scarcity the former Bank, with its doubtful reputation for stability, could not procure specie from any other source, and consequently was compelled to stop payment.
The assets, property and claims of the Bank have been assigned to Mr. George Field, Mr. William Laytin, and Mr. C.L. Anthony, in trust for the creditors. These gentlemen, from the cursory examination they have as yet been able to make of the affairs of the defunct bank, hope that they will be able to secure for the stock holders a respectable dividend after paying all the debts. The bill holders, of course, are safe, there being a sufficiency of State stocks deposited at Albany to redeem every note. The assignees will use all diligence to collect the outstanding claims of the Bank, and intend declaring a dividend as soon as they have received enough to warrant them in so doing.
The City Bank is receiving at par those notes of the Farmers’ and Citizens’ Bank, which may have been held by its own customers, or those which may be handed in, in payment of the liabilities of the holder to the City Bank; but it does not redeem them in specie. Holders of notes on the defunct Bank, however, need not lose a cent, nor part with their notes for anything less than par.
