3 September 1857
“The Circus And A Few Plain Words Concerning It”
One of these perambulating nuisances is again within our District’s limits, and is of course successful in attracting crowded tents. We say “of course,” for the success is invariable and undeniable. Thousands who could not be induced to patronize a chaste, elevating and tasteful entertainment of a higher class, will rush pell-mell to crowd the dirty boards of one of these exhibitions, to listen to the same stupid profanity and gross obscenity of the painted buffoon, and to witness with saucer-eyes and gaping- mouths the same venerable, time-worn jumps, posturings and tumblings that delighted bacon-chawing rustics two hundred years ago. What a sad commentary upon the advance of enlightenment among the people, of which modern educationists prate so loudly!
These circuses are evil in themselves and in all their surroundings and effects. Viewed merely in a material point of view they are injurious to a community. They take away from us thousands of dollars and spend not a cent here, worth mentioning, as an equivalent. The smallest article that is possible to obtain elsewhere is so obtained, and our own people derive not the slightest benefit from their presence. 
But it is in their moral aspect that we should regard them most seriously. They are perfect nurseries of vice and immorality. They corrupt the minds of the young perhaps more than any one cause that could be named. Parents are robbed in hundreds of instances in order that boys may obtain means to indulge in this dissipation. It is terrible to see these young, flushed faces, seated tier above tier, gloating over indecencies, drinking in the filthy poison with every breath, taking the first, fatal steps in the path that goes down to death.
We are certainly not likely to be accused of Puritanism, but that part of the old blue-laws that related to these travelling abominations we do most sincerely subscribe to. Just as resolutely as we advocate and have always advocated sound, rational, healthful amusement, so do we set our faces against such as are calculated only to lower the standard of taste and morals—to deprave and to destroy. We have spoken warmly because we feel warmly on this subject. We appeal to every man of sense and taste—to every friend of the people—above all to every conscientious parent, to bear us out in what we have said.
