3 September 1857
“The Primary Elections”
For years all honest politicians have admitted and deplored the evils resulting from the primary election system. Every now and then it becomes the vehicle for perpetrating some huge fraud on the credit of party and the public interests; and then even from the most inveterate partisans comes a call for its abandonment. But it is not abandoned—because there are hundreds of men in every large city who live by its operation, who thrive by its iniquities. 
The public have read of gigantic rascalities and betrayals of trust on the part of officeholders so often, that they have almost ceased to believe in the possibility of official integrity. Nineteen-twentieths of the frauds and extravagancies perpetrated under our local government are directly attributable to this primary system. Find a man who is deeply involved in city contracts, and ten to one but you have in him a skillful manager of ward primaries. The secret why city contract work costs so much is explained when you trace the connexion of the contractor with the primary elections of his ward.
The latest result of the primary election system was brought about last evening, when Ex. Ald. Eames received the nomination of the Democratic party for Alderman of the 15th Ward, by a majority of 107 to 92 over Mr. Cunningham, his opponent. So now the 15th warders have now Mr. Dygert and Mr. Eames to choose between; and it will be a pity if this list is not added to by the name of Mr. Preston. Such a contest would be fair and equal. How Mr. Eames dared to bring himself forward as a candidate, with Judge Morris’s late charge on official corruption still ringing in his ears, and the Grand Jury now investigating this very subject, we cannot conceive. It is enough to know that he did come forward, and that the primary election system gave him the nomination.
Surely all who know the facts of this case, and the antecedents of the parties, will make it the text of a renewed demand for the amendment or abrogation of primaries. If the County Committee do not see fit to supersede these primary elections, they ought to at least, if they value the public good and the character of their party nominations, to alter the mode of holding them. Let the election be held, not in a liquor store, but in a place where any voter may enter without fear and without scruple—and let each voter’s name and vote be recorded, and open for inspection. If a few changes of this kind were effected, even the long disgraced 15th ward would be spared the further ignominy of such a nomination as was made last night.
