3 September 1857
“The Atlantic Telegraph Cable”
We are glad to see from the perusal of the official report of Mr. Bright, the engineer, that he, who is best acquainted with the subject, is most hopeful of the eventual success of the enterprise. He attributes the breakage to the reversal of the hand wheel of the brake by a mechanic whom he placed in charge, during his (Mr. B’s) momentary absence from the machine. If the engineering staff be increased, so as to permit of competent engineering skill being in charge of the apparatus unceasingly, he has no doubt that the present machinery will effectually and safely pay out the cable. Still, he thinks some minor alterations might be prudently effected in the apparatus for paying out. Mr. Bright settles also some other questions which have been raised in this connection. He states that the machinery was not too ponderous; that the fact of two halves of the cable being wound in different directions did not affect its efficiency, and that in fact he sees no reason whatever for discouragement. We cannot but rejoice to find the practicability of the original scheme thus confirmed, though in doing so, Mr. Bright necessarily overlooks the superior advantages of some of the many improved plans which have been suggested in the papers on this side of the water. For instance, the announcement of one genius finds appropriate place in the Herald, that he will suggest an infallible method of laying the cable safely, on condition of receiving a small bonus for his discovery. Another genius—and that no less a personage than the “senior” of one of the Sunday papers—soberly proposes in his last issue that a fast steamer be sent from Valentia with 2500 miles of small cord on board, one end of which shall be attached to the shore. Said twine our sagacious cotemporary proposes to pay out across the ocean, and that on getting to Newfoundland, a powerful steam engine shall be employed to draw the cord gradually from Valentia. The European end of the cord having been by this time made fast to the cable, the latter, it is calculated, will be drawn surely and safely across the entire ocean, until its ends can be made fast to each shore, and thus the thing will be accomplished, as the reader will readily perceive without going into the details. Compared with this moonshine almost any proposition would be reasonable. For our own part, we suggest a chain of balloons, to serve as aerial buoys on which to hang the cable. There now!
