30 November 1857
“A Chance for Small Capitalists”
We desire to call the attention of economical people of small means, with savings amounting to $100 and upwards, to the advertisement of the Water Commissioners for loans, which appears elsewhere. When Napoleon III. entered upon the Russian war, he found the large capitalists somewhat doubtful of the permanence of his rule, and disinclined to risk their money by lending it to him. He therefore called upon the people at large to evince their confidence in him and in the stability of the empire by investing their mites in the loan he desired to raise. The demand was responded to on all sides, and the issue has proved equally satisfactory to the people and the Emperor.
The Water Commissioners have copied a chapter in finance from the French Emperor. We have already explained to our readers that the city bonds issued by the Comptroller are safe beyond a peradventure as investments. As long as a house stands in Brooklyn, or a single lot remains of the soil comprising its site, it is impossible that these bonds should lose their full intrinsic value. No one can possibly lose the amount, large or small, which he invests in them. Add to this that they bear an interest of seven per cent, while the Savings Banks give only six, and it is apparent that those who desire a sure and remunerative investment for their savings can place it nowhere else to so great advantage, as in the Water Loan certificates.
It is not only the interest of the small capitalists to thus employ their surplus funds, but also that of the city at large. Property will rise in value as the Water Works are completed; additional laborers will be employed, as fast as money is loaned on these certificates: and thus the citizen who invests to the extent of his means in the purchase of these certificates, will not only have made an investment of his money, as safe and more remunerative than it is possible for him otherwise to do, but he will have the satisfaction of knowing that he has contributed at the same time to furnish labor for the unemployed, and to expedite a work on the speedy completion of which so much of the future prosperity of the city depends. 
