30 September 1857
“The Liquor Law”
The Liquor Law passed by the last Legislature has fairly become a dad letter in this county—dead beyond the possibility of resurrection. Judge Morris has made several desperate “charges” upon it, and has utterly routed it, horse, foot, and dragoons. His first charge made a wide whole in its ranks, his next turned its flank, and his final charge has utterly demolished it. Step by step he has demonstrated its thorough inefficiency to restrict or regulate the sale of liquors.
His Honor first decided that the sale of liquor by unlicensed persons was not made an indictable offense by the express wording of the law, though he admitted the presumption to be that the Legislature intended it so. Then we find that there is no law to compel the Commissioners to finish their business, and until they have done this, no man can be proceeded against in civil suit for selling without a license, since the presumption is that the Commissioners may yet give him one. The Judge has now gone a step further, and decided that the section in regard to selling liquor on Sundays and election days, &c., the only offences under the act which he considers indictable, does not apply to unlicensed persons. The amount of the whole thus appears to be, that a man cannot be indicted for carrying on the liquor trade without a license; and, unless he has a license, he is not amenable even in respect of those offences against the act which are misdemeanors. Instead therefore of a license being a protection to the liquor dealer, it absolutely appears that the man who has no license is placed in the safer position of the two—for the latter may not be indicted, either for selling liquor all the week without a license, or even for selling it on Sundays or election days. Those who have paid for licenses, therefore, have been decidedly “sold”—for all the difference between them and their unlicensed competitors is, that the latter may sell liquor on Sundays or election days without fear of indictment, a thing which the terms of the license prevents the former from doing.
[extract omitted]
