4 December 1857
“How We Stand”
The cause universally assigned for the late disarrangement of business and monetary affairs is, that we produce too little and consume too much. Yet it is difficult to realize the amount of what we do produce, so vast are the arrays of figures that represent the results of our agriculture and our manufactures. The value of the yield of the land in 1855, according to the Patent Office report, was $1,200,000,000, or about two and a half times the value of all the coinage of the nation from the beginning until the end of 1856. The Indian corn crop alone was worth more than all the gold that ever came from California. The cotton crop had risen from one million four hundred thousand in 1836-7 to nearly three millions in 1856-7.
The worth of our manufactures exhibits an array of figures none the less astonishing. The latest official statistics on the subject estimate the capital engaged in manufactures in the United States at over five hundred millions of dollars, and the annual production of manufactured articles, materials included, at a thousand millions. The manufacture of iron alone amounts to a million tons, with an indefinite prospect of augmentation. The valuation of property, real and personal, has reached five hundred millions, and how largely this amount is increasing may be inferred from the fact that houses enough have been built in the country during the last quarter century to form an unbroken avenue between the furthest limits of the Union, and leave a surplus at each end for the formation of a great city.
With these facts, then, showing that the production of food and habitation keeps pace with the ever increasing multiplication of articles of comfort, civilization and luxury, we may be well assured that no commercial or financial disaster which overtakes us can be other than evanescent and temporary in its duration; that there is no fundamental unsoundness in our position as a nation; and that we are justified to the fullest extent in our most sanguine expectations of permanent prosperity.
