May 4, 1857
“The New Police Bill”
(incidental material at start of article) Publish below a communication from ?? Northrup to the Chief of Police, ?? to the pay of the force for the month of…the communication speaks for itself. …position taken by the Auditor seems to be only one which the financial officer of the ??? could safely take, whatever his opinion as the constitutionality of the law. The new ??? deprives him of all power to audit the pay and police force and vests it elsewhere. Pending the decision of the courts, it would be imprudent, to say the least of it, were he to assume the invalidity of the new law, and continue paying salaries of police inder the old system.
There never was a law passed by any Legislature which has been so much spoken of and so little understood in its main provisions, as this same police law. We hear people censure or praise it, from day to day, who do not seem to understand its simplest provisions. The New York papers are constantly enlightening the people on the probability of the “Commissioners” forming another police than the existing one, and thus have two clashing forces in the field. This would be an usurpation of power truly, for no such power exists. The Commissioners simply possess the power to appoint so many “patrol men” as the Board of Aldermen of the City of Brooklyn and the Board of Supervisors of the County of New York “may designate as the ?? of the patrol force to be paid for by said respectively—each locality having the power to increase or diminish the number at each meeting of their respective Boards if they choose to do so. So that it will be perceived that Brooklyn, through her Common Council, still has control of her own police in regard to the number which shall be employed and paid for by her. The Board of Commissioners cannot stir one peg without the consent of the city or county authorities. So in regard to moneys—they are hampered in, and no moneys can be raised until passed upon by an Auditing Committee, composed of the Comptrollers of New York and Brooklyn and the Presidents of the Boards of Supervisors of the several counties consisting of the Metropolitan Police District. Such, at least, is the tenor of the latest amendments made to the bill, and which were introduced subsequently to the procurement of copies for publication in the New York papers.
Another common error is the supposition that our financial officers have the power, under the new law, to pay the police. The law provides that all the unexpended moneys in the City Treasury, applicable to the pay of the police, shall be paid over to the State Treasurer, on demand, and then drawn therefrom by the Treasurer of the “Metropolitan Police Board,” and by him disbursed to the force. Whether the bill be a good one or a bad one, all laws of the Legislature should be considered as valid, until those specially set apart by the people to settle questions like the one at issue shall have pronounced them invalid. In this lies our safety.
(Letter of May 1, 1857 from D. L. Northrup, Auditor’s Office, Brooklyn to John S. Folk, Esq., Chief of Police, omitted.)
