4 November 1857
“The Election Yesterday”
The weather yesterday was all that could be desired for electioneering purposes. Not even the most rheumatic or nervous of voters could find in it an excuse for neglecting his duty to his country. Yet that many did neglect that duty, the enormous diminution in the opposition vote amply proves.
To show how great this falling off has been, we may refer to the 13th ward, which as one of the strongest “Whig wards” in the city, was relied on to give Mr. Stryker at least 700 majority; but has actually given him only 24. This result is partially attributed to the obscure location of one of the polls; but it was mainly caused by a wholesale repudiation of the fusion by the young men of the American party. 
In consequence of the majorities being so wholly one-sided, but little interest has been felt in the details of the result; and in several districts—as will be seen by the returns—the canvassers and poll clerks would not even take the trouble to fill the blanks for the press. To those who have done so, and have thus enabled us to publish the result in their district with accuracy and promptitude, we express our sincere acknowledgements, as well as to the police detailed to attend the polls, who in every instance preserved the most complete order around the voting places, and provided facilities for every citizen to exercise his suffrage without molestation.
The Democrats, it is needless to say, are proud of their victory—and well they may be. To have beaten their opponents combined, is to all appearance to be able to defy opposition for the future, and to have secured an indefinite lease of power.
The minor incidents of the day are few, and hardly worthy of mention. The general obedience which was rendered to the law requiring the closing of liquor stores, had the effect of preventing many breaches of the peace and untoward occurrences, which we should otherwise have had to record.
One of the ballot boxes in the 1st district of the 3d ward burst, owing to the heat of the room.
Terence Ventee attempt to vote illegally at the poll in the 3d precinct Station House. His intentious was frustrated, and he was forthwith introduced to another and less hospitable quarter of the building, from whence he will issue to appear before Justice Morehouse and be dealt with according to his deserts.
A pistol was taken from the hands of Thomas McNamee by officer Kelly, at the 1st district poll of the 2d ward, about half past six in the morning. He had threatened to shoot one of the inspectors of election.
The result of the election may be stated in a word. The fusionists have not elected a single man except General Duryea, who owes his singular good fortune to his great personal popularity and his position among the military.
This complete and overwhelming vanquishment of the opposition by the Democracy must necessarily lead to a reconstruction of parties in this country. The Fusion Americans necessarily regard those who bolted the ticket yesterday as traitors—and vice versa. It appears to us that the Fusion Americans cannot long avoid being merged in the Republican party, while those who bolted the Fusion will be driven to consort permanently with the Democratic party. We shall see.
[Extract omitted]
