4 September 1857
“The Juvenile House Of Industry”
Considerable interest has been awakened in the city with regard to this institution, which is about to be established under the Statute law for the reclamation of vagrant children. With the circumstances our readers are necessarily familiar. In 1853 the Legislature of the State passed an act empowering the local authorities of the various cities to establish institutions to which vagrant and uncared for children might be conveyed, and in which such tuition and training might be bestowed on them as would render their future lives a benefit instead of an annoyance to the community. Philanthropical citizens early perceived the advantages which would accrue, both in a humanitarian and economical point of view, from this city availing herself of the provisions of this law; but it was not until 1856, through the exertions of the Mayor, George Hall, that the subject was acted upon by the Joint Board of Finance. That body having then appropriated $10,000 towards the inauguration of an institution of the required description, in the early part of the present year the President of the Common Council, Alderman Pierson, appointed a committee of five members of that body to take permanent charge of the subject. Of that committee Alderman A.B. Clarke, of the 6th ward, was appointed chairman, and his subsequent exertions in the promotion of the subject contemplated have done him the highest credit.
In the recent meetings of the Joint Board of the present year, considerable opposition was made to the appropriate of any further sum—partly from the idea that the $10,000 already in hand was amply sufficient for the purpose contemplated, and partly, we believe, from a misconception of the real intent of the promoters of the scheme. It appears that several of the Aldermen conceived the project to be allied to that of the Children’s Aid Society, whose work lies in transporting  friendless children to the Far West; but this is an entirely erroneous opinion. The design of the Juvenile Home of Industry simply is to take those children who are growing up in our midst in wretchedness and vagrancy, either from having no parents or whose parents are unwilling to discharge their duty towards them, and to train them up so that they shall acquire habits of sobriety and industry, coupled with the knowledge of the rudiments of education, and familiarity with some useful occupation.
The first step taken by the committee was the selection of a fitting location and building for the institution, as the funds at their disposal did not permit of a new building being erected for the purpose. Their desire was to obtain the old Lunatic Asylum at Flatbush; but the increasing number of patients warned the Superintendents of the Poor that the building would be required to accommodate those for whom there was not room in the new Asylum; hence they felt compelled to decline to place the building at the disposal of the Committee. Subsequently, however, the Board of Supervisors consented to lease the old Penitentiary building to the Committee at a nominal rent of $100 a year. The committee have $14,000 in hand, with which they propose at once to fit up the building, at an expense of something less than $1000, and hope to commence operations by the first of October prox. They have been fortunate in their selection of a gentleman to fill the important post of Superintendent, their choice having fallen on the Rev. E.J. Gerry, an old and respected citizen, whose fitness for the duty we urged shortly after the committee were appointed. Mr. Gerry has spent a considerable portion of this life in similar duties—in intercourse with the class of children sought to be benefitted; and his experience and devotion to the object will render his services invaluable to the institution. Since being notified of his appointment he has paid visits of inspection to the similar institutions throughout New England, and will bring the result of his observations to aid him in his duties. In the plan or system which he will adopt, Mr. Gerry will be guided by circumstances—by the number of children placed under his care, their ages, the disposition they exhibit, &c. The ages at which inmates will be received, according to the law, vary from seven to sixteen. There will be an ample portion of the county farm assigned to be cultivated by the pupils, who will all be taught to earn their living either by agricultural or manufacturing skill, and thus qualified to obtain an honest support on quitting the institution.
It is our intention, when the institution shall have become in active operation, to furnish our readers with a full description of it. At present therefore we need only express the hope, that the success of the experiment about to be made will be commensurate with the importance of the object sought to be promoted, and the zeal and energy which the Committee and Superintendent bring to its accomplishment.
