5 June 1857
“The Doctors Persist but the Patient Dies”
Mayor Powell acted in a manner unworthy of his better convictions, when he absconded from the Board of Health, yesterday, because that body would not work in the same harness with himself—non-acknowledgment of the Metropolitan Police Law. It was the move of a zealous partisan, and not of a sensible man, Mayor of a city of two hundred thousand people.
All that was necessary for Mr. Powell to have done, would have been to have made something like the following remarks, and carried out the spirit of them:
“Gentlemen of the Board of Health, it is well-known that I do not recognize the constitutionality or propriety of the alleged Metropolitan Police Commission—and that I have taken a decided stand against their interference with the established Police force of Brooklyn. This course I shall not change; and I put these remarks in the nature of a protest before the Board. Nevertheless, in so vital a matter as the sanitary condition of the city, I do not think proper to separate myself from you, but shall remain and give my aid, authority, and counsel in all that refers to such important matters.”
Suppose he had spoken in that manner—it would have retained the consistency of the Mayor, and “put him right” with the camarilla, and, (what we begin to think is the governing power in Brooklyn, after all) with the Fernando Wood and Bill Wilson democracy of New York city.
Is it not disgraceful that this vast and populous city, with all that belong to it—wealth, improvements, and the very lives and health of the citizens, should be made the mere footballs, playthings, for partisans? that the Mayor himself should have his common-sense, manliness, and independence, all subordinated to a few selfish party leaders? That their dicta, and not those of the body of the people, are to be obeyed?
We shall continue to watch these movements in the Brooklyn Board of Health, with an intention not to spare those who evidently would have the patient die rather than retract an obstinate course.
