May 5, 1857
“The Gas Question”
The Common Council debate on the important question of supplying the city with gas, is reported in our account of the proceedings of that body last evening. We think the action taken was not the wisest which might have been adopted. 
Ald. Pierson’s remarks in defence of monopolies, per se, command respect. There should be no prejudice felt against a company because it is a monopoly, or because it does a vast and lucrative business. The only inquiry for the city authorities should be whether it makes use of its monopoly and its large resources to oppress and burden the city, or for the public good. When a company, relying on the strength of its purse, deliberately violates its engagements, and regards the city only as a vast sponge to be oppressed for the benefit of “honorable” directors—as is the case with some of our public companies—it is time for every municipal energy to be strained in the effort to reduce them to their proper position as the servants instead of the masters of the community.
None of the ideas thrown out by different Aldermen meet the entire difficulty of the case. One suggested that the city should exact rent of the company for the privilege of laying mains in the streets—forgetting that they would indemnify themselves by raising the price to private consumers. Another thought the city ought to own her own ferries, gas works, city railroads, &c, and, we suppose, have them all converted into lazar—houses, as the Navy Yard is in the hands of the Federal government. If the city owned the gas works it is safe to predict that before long, under the management of political workers, the gas would be of worse quality than any private company would know how to make, and cost more than any monopoly would dare to charge.
We do not concur in the propriety of shelving the whole subject, as the Board virtually did last evening. Neither do we admire the haste with which the Gas Company were ready to contract with an unknown Wall street Company, the only Brooklyn man among whom, so far as we could learn, was an attorney not laboring under a plethora of wealth, but who, by means of a roundabout personal and family connexion, was able to get a newspaper or two to endorse the scheme. These gentlemen offered a homeopathic amount of security and purposed to supply gas at an infinitesimal price. The true course for the Common Council to adopt, would be to learn, by the aid of a Committee’s inquiries, what are the present prices of gas in other cities, in comparison with the facilities of production and amount supplied. From these data they could readily infer what we ought to pay here, both as individuals and in our aggregate capacity. Then the leave to lay mains should be granted only to the companies who would supply the city at the prices which careful investigation had proved to be at once fair to the consumers and remunerative to the company.
