5 October 1857
“Policemen’s Wages—A Reduction Called For”
At times of great financial depression such as that through which we are now passing, when employment of all kinds is getting more and more scarce, and wages are falling in proportion, it is but fair that the burden which is to be borne by the people should, as far as possible, be equalized, and that all should, by sharing it, lighten the weight of the general calamity.
Just at this time, our Metropolitan police force are by far the best paid men in the community. At this time, and under the present circumstances, their salary of $800 per year, as compared with the earnings of mechanics and working men from whose ranks the police have been drafted, may be denominated excessive, without incurring the charge of unfairness. There are hundreds and thousands of hardworking laboring men and first rate mechanics, at this time, as everybody knows who has taken the pains to enquire, whose wages, at present rates, do not average more than half that sum, and who, in view of the coming winter, do not see clearly how even that minimum, necessary to subsistence, is to be continuously secured. But our spruce, blue-coated and brass-buttoned gentry are complacent, smiling and easy in their smug berths, totally unmoved by suspensions, failures, crises or any other of these stern realities which are making the rank and file of the people quake with apprehension. Why should they be disturbed? The public crib is safe and sound, and in these times if a man is assured of “piling-up” a nice little salary of $800, in the midst of the general monetary distress and woeful want, who has a better right to be satisfied?
Everybody is aware of the alarming increase in our city taxation, and upon looking into its causes, this matter of increase of pay will be found to be a heavy item—no less than $150,000—partly for deficiency of 1857, and the increased expense for the coming year. Last year the rate per cent of tax in the whole city was $1,46—this year it is $1,79. Thus it will be seen that have a large increase of taxation, at the very time of all others when we are least able to bear it. Such a state of things may well cause complaints both loud and deep from our oppressed tax-paying citizens and serious consideration from every member of that community upon which the burden must, indirectly, rest.
For the principles of the Metropolitan Police Bill, we have always entertained a high respect, and have afforded them, so far as in us lay, a consistent and unwavering support. But in view of the present aspect of affairs, we put it to every candid mind, whether, all things taken into consideration, the police, under that bill, are not very much overpaid for their services, and whether a Legislative enactment ought not to be passed, reducing their pay to something like a fair comparison with that of the great mass of men occupying the same social status? In New York, under the old law, the police-pay was $700 per annum, and that was always considered amply sufficient. There never was then, and very sure we are, there would not be at the present time, the slightest difficulty in raising first-rate men for the position, at that salary, who would perform the same services quite as efficiently as do the guardians of the peace to whom we are at present donating $800. The next Legislature will be doing but simple justice to the counties where the Metropolitan Police Bill is in force, should they take up this matter at the earliest moment and conclude upon some reasonable reduction.
In what we have written we are moved purely by the suggestions of fairness and common sense. We should be the last to attempt to curtail in any way, the liberal provision made for the members of the Police, provided that the rates of compensation for labor were now what they were when the Metropolitan Bill went into operation. But there is fitness in all things, and we think that few will deny after a careful examination of the matter, that their pay is at present, disproportionately large, and that a suitable reduction would be eminently just, reasonable and proper.

