5 October 1857
“Valedictory Meeting at Public School No. 16”
Wednesday, September 30th, was a day memorable in the history of the schools of our city. During the afternoon of that day, Miss Kerr, Principal of the Female Department of No. 16, and Miss Bodwell, holding a similar position in No. 17, having resigned the places which they had honorably filled for some ten or twelve years, took leave of their respective departments, in the full enjoyment of the sympathy and love of a multitude of youthful hearts, and the confidence and respect of their school officers and friends.
That two ladies, thus connected with our schools, who had for years maintained their several departments with distinguished ability, should at the same hour resign (without previous concert) their respective places for the purpose of assuming new relations in life, and of a similar character, is worthy of note.
The TIMES of Thursday contained an account of the farewell meeting at No. 17. We here propose to give a brief sketch of the meeting at No. 16, together with a series of resolutions, adopted by the local trustees of that school.
At two o’clock P.M. the scholars of the Female Department assembled for the purpose of meeting for the last time, and taking leave of their respected Principal, Miss Kerr. There were present, Messrs. Burr, Tuttle, and Johnson, Trustees of the school, Mr. Bulkley, Superintendent of Schools, and other gentlemen and ladies who had come to witness the proceedings and take part in the exercises.
Mr. Horton, the accomplished music teacher, led the pupils in appropriate songs; but the occasion called up so much emotion that the task was too difficult for them; silence and tears were more eloquent than song.
Mr. Burr, of the Trustees, in a few pertinent remarks explained the object of the meeting. He spoke of the school and its general character, of the pleasure he felt in visiting it and introducing it to citizens and strangers, interested in the cause of education. He felt that the city had occasion to be proud of our schools in general, and from frequent visitation and examination, he was satisfied that No. 16 stood honorable among the schools of the city, and that it would not suffer in comparison with the best.
Mr. B. paid to the retiring Principal, Miss K., no mean compliment, when he said that “in the government of her department, moral force was the element by which the good order was maintained, and the rapid progress of the pupils promoted.” He bore witness to the intelligence, fidelity, ability and success of Miss K. in the discharge of her duties; expressed the deep regret of the Trustees in receiving her resignation, and assured her of their confidence, sympathy and best wishes for her future prosperity and happiness.
Mr. Burr here introduced Mr. Bulkley to the audience, who, at the request of the Teachers and pupils, after a few remarks, presented in behalf of the school, splendidly illustrated volumes of Shakespeare and Bryant, to Miss Kerr. There were also, presentations of Dauguerreotypes, and other souvenirs of affectionate regard. These presentations were received with deep emotion by Miss K. who unable to give expression to the feelings, thus induced, bowed to Mr. Burr, who arose, thanked the school for these evidences of love and respect, and assured them of the continued affection and interest of Miss K. in their progress, welfare and happiness. Mr Smith briefly spoke of the school, its high character and influence in the community; of Miss Kerr, her zeal, ability and successful efforts, in elevating the character of the school and sustaining its reputation; of his regret at her leaving, and the great loss the school would sustain thereby. He too expressed great interest in Miss K. and assured her, that she would ever be held in grateful remembrance, by her pupils, the Trustees and the friends of the school.
[extract omitted]
