5 October 1857
“Politics and the Police”
The Superintendent of Police has published an order, calling attention to the rule which declares that “no member of the Police Department will be permitted to connect himself, directly or in any way, with a society, club, committee or organization of any kind, the object of which is the political advancement of any party, clique or individual.” The New York Times says this is a wholesome and necessary regulation, and commends it to the attention of the members of the Police Department, especially to that of General James W. Nye, one of the Police Commissioners, whom it considers one of the most active politicians in the Republican party, and lectures him at length accordingly. Bully for the Times. If anybody doubted its complete emancipation from party, let them doubt no longer. But the Times does not rest content with overhauling Mr. Nye. It turns attention to Mayors Wood and Powell—charging the latter with being the mere tool of the former—echoing his wishes and voting as he commands. With all deference we beg to dissent from this. Mr. Powell’s opposition to the Metropolitan Police Law was purely of a negative character. He did not compel the force to take sides, and hence a large proportion of his political friends retain their situations, while in New York, every Democrat, thanks to Mayor Wood, was removed from the force. Had Mayor Powell been a blind follower of Wood, he would have imitated him in this respect with like sad results. So when the law was declared constitutional, Mayor Powell gracefully bended, appeared among his fellow Commissioners and was cordially received, while the other sulked and would not have met with them at all but for the vacancy created by the resignation of Sim. Draper, when he rushed in and assumed his wonted role of trickery and humbug. Mayor Powell is a Democrat—he was nominated and elected by the Democratic party—but he has not forgotten that he is Mayor of the city and not of a party. We consider that he has been as fair in the respect as any man could be. Let not our namesake, in its zeal to exhibit its impartiality, deal unjust blows where blows are not deserved.
