6 May 1857 (rough copy)
“The Religions of the Nations”
We observe in an exchange the following calculation, which is probably not far wide of the mark, with regard to the number of votaries of different religions throughout the world:
There existed in the first century, 500,000 Christians; in the second, 2,000,000; in the thirteenth, 75,000,000; and at present there are existing 200,000,000 Christians; 140,000,000 Mahbinetahs; 2,500,000 Jews; and 675,000,000 heathens. Of the Christians it is calculated 90,000,000 are Roman Catholics, 25,000,000 belong to the Greek Church, and 75,000,000 are Protestants, or members of other religious sects. Mahometanism, which is suited only to warm climates, and only accords with despotism, by means of successful wars, alone disseminated its doctrine only in warm climates. 
Romanism is strongest among the partially civilized nations of Europe and South America; while Protestantism flourishes most successfully in America and England, where greater latitude of mental and personal freedom exists than in any other countries. 
The character of a nation’s religion may be inferred from the comparative civilization of the people. Thus a dull, lazy, phlegmatic race, like the Turks, naturally embrace the Mohammedan idea of fatalism, while the Dutch, a few degrees less phlegmatic, are content with Calvin’s dogma of predestination. The flippant Frenchman, the devil-may-care Irishman, and the gay Italian, will not be bothered with theological speculations; hence they fly to the bosom of the Roman Church, which relieves them from further investigation by asserting her own infallibility. The Englishman finds his love of liberty and his innate, dogged conservatism, both gratified by the Episcopalian faith, which has enough of ceremony about it to make it appear “respectable” in the eyes of the decorous John Bull, and yet, by claiming no absolute authority, leaves him as much freedom of thought and belief as he cares to indulge. But the American, with a smaller bump of veneration, and more of mental independence, attaches comparatively little consequence to differences of belief. He acts up to, if he does not believe in, the motto of Pope—
“For modes of faith let graceless zealots fight,
His can’t be wrong whose life is in the right”
The American has a very vague idea of what constitutes “heresy.” Decrees of ecumenical councils, creeds and confessions of faith, and longer and shorter Catechisms, carry little conviction to his mind. He is decidedly latitudinarian, and recognizes as a Christian teacher many a man who does not even profess himself bound to believe more of the Bible, and of Christ’s teachings, than he pleases. He has no word of blame for a minister, who, after solemnly consecrating his life to the service of heaven, goes to Congress for a term or two, and when finally checkmated on the political chessboard, returns with nonchalance to his old pulpit. He commendingly pats on the back a clergyman who, for the sake of a little fleeting notoriety, deserts over to the camp of the pulpit’s old enemy, the stage. In a word, he lets his pastor preach anything or everything, under the name of religion, provided only he be sound in politics. No theological errors would be weighty enough to result in the excommunication of a minister who was “sound” on the slavery questions, according to the geographical locality of his labors—North or South.
If there is something to condemn, there is also much to applaud, in all this. If there be less of simple faith, less of heartfelt, humble piety and adoration, than should be associated with our national Christianity, there is also the enduring consciousness that no system of mental despotism can exist here in its true colors; that no one denomination can ever have the power, supposing it had the will, to persecute those who prefer to worship outside its pale.
