6 November 1857
“A Transcendent Villain”
The revolting disclosures developed this morning in the newspaper reports of the Woodman case, are enough to cause any man with a spark of humanity in his breast, to burn with indignation at the consummate villainy of the chief actor in the drains—Mephistophiles Furniss. 
Such heartless and revolting cruelty, such cowardly brutality, such disgusting indecency as characterized the conduct of her seducer toward this poor, weak woman, are unparalleled in the history of criminal trials, and surpass anything to be found, even in the extravagant pages of Sue or Reynolds. Taking advantage of her nervous and sickly condition he wins her confidence, and establishes a kind of fascination over her which he uses for the meanest and basest of purposes—terrifying her by threats of exposure, forcing money from her by coarse threats, following her wherever she went and rendering her life as a perpetual torment; and finally, true to his brutal instincts, actually uses corporal violence, placing his victim in danger of her life. Then comes the expose, and in quick succession follows his pertinacious attempt to follow her with his persecutions even to the “last scene of all” in this eventful drama.
For the credit of our common humanity, it is to be hoped that such fiends in the guise of men are but rare in the community. “It is to be hoped,” we say. But that underneath the fair seeming of our social system lurk unrevealed, as yet, many, very many, of such tales of sin and suffering none can entertain a reasonable doubt. Why is it that these disclosures, when they do come to light, excite such wide-spread interest, and that their details are so eagerly devoured? Is it simply because they administer to the morbid cravings of a prurient curiosity? Not altogether, we opine. There are other reasons, lying much nearer home. The social fabric, especially in certain spheres, is rotten, and sounds hollow beneath the tread.
This Woodman case, like the hundreds of scandalous cases which have preceded it, will prove only a nine days wonder and then be forgotten except by the parties immediately interested. Already another tragedy in Philadelphia—a story of seduction, jealousy and revenge—is occupying the public attention. But there are really some features in this case to excite our special wonder and give it a “bad eminence.” Such sordid meanness, such utter depravity as it has revealed in the person of one man do not come to light every day. Let the miscreant be gibbeted in the public estimation.
