6 October 1857
“The American Primaries”
	The American Primaries were held last evening, according to notice, and, generally speaking, passed off quietly. In the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th wards, the fusion Union ticket prevailed without opposition. In the 13th, two tickets were run, one fusion, and the other “straight-back” anti-fusion. The latter ticket was elected by a large majority, having polled over three hundred votes. The electors however who supported it, were of a class that we have never before noticed at American Primaries, or in the American party. Had we come suddenly to the polls, not knowing previously what party was voting, we should have, set down the gathering, as a convention of Democratic Delegates from the 14th and 6th wards, N. York. Surely the American party of the 13th ward must be hard pushed for voters when such electors are invited, or even admitted to take part in their Primaries. A gentleman in whose judgment we can place full reliance, states that the Ticket elected, was got through by inducing the friends of Mr. Betts to believe that by voting the Ticket, Mr. B would get the nomination for Sherriff. The “Straight Backs” even went so far as to assure Mr. B’s friends that it was arranged that the Eastern District was to have the nomination of Mr. B. given to it, and the Western District to have all the other nominations. On this assurance, all that could be brought to the polls, from the distilleries, wharves, workshops, &c., were pressed into the service. The firemen were also induced to support the ticket, believing that by doing so they were benefitting their favorite candidate. The present result is seen in the ticket elected. The real result aimed at by the getters-up of the ticket is to ensure the nomination of a certain lawyer in the 13th ward on the Assembly ticket, as well as to create dissension in the American ranks, in hopes that by dividing the American party and preventing a fusion between the opposition, the “better citizen” democracy may still triumph in the County.
	Personally, we respect Mr. Betts, and sincerely regret that he has been so badly and so cheaply sold. They will doubtless find it out in time to repay the “straight-Backs” in their own coin.
