7 December 1857
“The Officers of the House of Representatives”
The Democratic members of the House of Representatives, to the number of one hundred and fourteen, met in caucus at Washington on Saturday evening last, and nominated the following candidates for the various offices of that body:
For Speaker				Mr. Orr of South Carolina.
For Clerk				Mr. Allen of Illinois.
For Postmaster				Mr. Cluskey of Georgia.
For Doorkeeper				Mr. Hackney of Virginia.
For Sergeant at Arms			Mr. Glossbrenner of Penn’a.
Such was the unanimity with which the selections were made in caucus, and so strong is the numerical majority of the Democratic party in the House, that there is scarcely a chance that more than a single ballot will be required to secure the election of the nominees. The House then, fully organized, will be ready to proceed to the transaction of the public business at once. Some of its predecessors, it will be remembered, have consumed weeks ere a choice of Speaker was effected.
For the Speakership it is no disparagement to his fellow members of the same political faith to say, that not one of them possesses in so eminent a degree the requisite qualifications for the distinguished station as Colonel ORR. For many years a representative from South Carolina in the House, his fine talents, strict attention to his public duties, and general demeanor, have won for him the respect and praise of even his heartiest political opponents. While acting as Chairman of the Committee of the Whole—a post which their appreciation of his public qualifications for the station induced the Speaker, even when opposed to him politically, to call upon him almost invariably to full upon occasions of exciting contest—his rigid impartiality and prompt firmness of decision, and the thorough parliamentary knowledge which his long service and earnest study has acquired for him, elicited the admiration and won the respect of all. It is not surprising, therefore, that his party friends should have been unanimous in their selection of him as their candidate. He is a thorough and consistent Democrat, and though of the extreme South, is not considered as affiliating in sentiment or action with those of his party in the section generally regarded as possessing salamander tastes and affinities.
The candidate for the Clerkship is from Illinois, and his selection may perhaps be regarded as a triumph of the “Douglas,” of whom he is reputed to be a warm personal and political friend. Of his capacities for the station, we know nothing, but they should be of a character almost if not equal to those required of the Speaker himself, whose place, during the process of organizing the body, he is called upon to fill. The office is a lucrative one.
The candidates for the minor, though they are generally the most pecuniarily profitable offices, we presume are of the usual character—men of moderate abilities, whose thorough devotion to party have entitled them to a share of the spoils.
The caucus could not agree upon the individual who is to be so fortunate as to receive their support as Government Printer. There is not an office or job connected with the Government so lucrative as this—one hundred thousand dollars a year being a moderate estimate of the profits resulting from it! The present printer, Mr. CORNELIUS WENDELL, appears to have the best chance for it at present. Mr. W. was for some time a resident of Williamsburgh, and is well known among the fraternity as an excellent printer and clever fellow. He learned his trade at Albany, was at one time State printer in Michigan, was one of the founders of the Albany Atlas, then worked as a journeyman, was afterwards for some time contractor to furnish the immense amount of brick required for the new capital at Washington, and was next elected Printer to Congress. Very few men have experienced more of the “ups and downs” of life than he.
He possesses to the fill all the peculiarities,--the love of adventure, the reckless generous nature, which so generally characterizes the disciples of Faust, and has earned and expended more than one handsome fortune. The caucus adjourned to meet again this evening, to decide upon their candidate for this office. Mr. Wendell has our best wishes for his success.
