7 July 1857
“Metropolitan Police Commission”
We stepped in for a few moments at the depot of the Metropolitan Police Commissioners in White street for the first time yesterday afternoon. We were pleased to find Mayor Powell present. Our fellow citizen, Mr. Stranahan—the only other Commissioner that we noticed—was doing the agreeable—that is to say he was receiving applicants for appointments, who were very numerous—and a very agreeable gentleman he seems to be. Every body was received with courtesy. One applicant, whose head was silvered by years, was frankly informed that the services of young men were needed, and that none but such, except in extraordinary cases, would be appointed. In explanation of this, Mr. S remarked that the duties of a policeman were very severe. He would in traversing his beat have to walk several miles each day, and for this and other obvious reasons, young men were best fitted for the arduous services. While we were present ex-Health officer West entered and presented his application. Mr. West was removed on the curtailment of the force at the beginning of the year. He had seen five years’ service, and was regarded as a good officer. He is desirous of being detailed at the Mayor’s office. We learned from Mayor Powell that the Brooklyn appointments will probably not be reached in several days yet. Mr. Powell, having pursued a course widely different from that of Fernando Wood, stands in far different regard with his fellow Commissioners, and, as has been before intimated, himself and Mr. Stranahan will have their say in the Brooklyn matters. Indeed, we were told that Mr. Stranahan does not concern himself with New York’ appointments, as he necessarily knows personally little or nothing of the merits of applicants, and vice versa. As no dismissals for insubordination have taken place in Brooklyn, all Policemen under the old law are Policemen under the new law, and can only be removed for cause after due trial. Those thirsting for appointments will therefore have to single out their victims and parade their affidavits. The position of Policemen under the new law is one worth struggling for, the pay being considerably above the average of a good mechanic’s wages, while the tenure of office is during good behavior, with the road to promotion thrown open, and provision for maintenance in case of injury while on duty.
