7 October 1857
“Hard Times!”
Everything stagnates. In every department of industry, paralysis, partial or complete, reigns. Large manufacturing establishments in every direction are stopping or about to stop, or are dragging on a kind of precarious, imperfect existence. New buildings that were in contemplation or actually in progress before the panic commenced, have been suddenly arrested in their growth. There has been an actual diminution from one fourth to one third in the amount of work done or labor employed, and we may continue to look (dismal prospect!) for a still more fearful falling off.
Take a “specimen brick” of the consequences of the “evil days” upon which we have fallen. One of the New York journals gives, this morning, the results of a cursory inquiry at some of the various large establishments in that city, and finds that from little over a dozen of these, no less than 2,661 men have been discharged since the present monetary pressure commenced. Over here, it is quite as bad. Without specifying particular establishments we may say that all, or nearly all, of the extensive manufactories, rope-walks, distilleries, ship-yards, etc., have greatly curtailed their operations and lessened their number of workers very materially, thus making it certain that a very large number of laborers must lose their employment and means of support.
	It appears to be a foregone conclusion, reluctant as we may be to admit it, that nothing short of some special interposition of Providence can save the poorer laboring classes from intense suffering during the winter months which are approaching. At a time when even the rich are compelled to think of curtailing their luxuries and when the comfortably situated middle classes are looking with apprehension upon the future, what are the rank and file, upon whom the great calamity will fall with the most crushing effect, to do? Where are they to turn for relief? How are they who living from hand to mouth, and depending upon their daily wages for their daily bread, to survive, without incredible sufferings the dreary months to come, without money, without credit,--and when even the cold charities of the world have assumed a still icier temperature, in view of the many reasons which compel every man, no matter what his means or position, to look steadfastly to himself or to his own private circle.
	Now is the time, if ever there was one, when a large, humanitarian spirit is needed and when it would find the broadest scope for its exercise. After the sudden alarm into which the whole community has been so suddenly plunged, has in a measure subsided, and the quick promptings of the instinct of self-preservation have been allowed their full play, we feel confident that the warm impulses and the mild charities which have ever characterized our people, will come once more into play, and that all will be done to alleviate the distress of those “whom we have always with us,” that can be accomplished by wise counsels and united effort and judicious benevolence. Unless a vigorous, well-timed and widespread effort of the kind is made by the wealthy, the public-spirited and philanthropic, we shall hear of such distress during the coming winter as will surpass anything witnessed in previous years.
