7 October 1857
“The Pay of the Police”
The Star takes exception to our article on the wages of the Police, and contends that $800 per annum is not too high for the service. It does not deny that good and competent men can be obtained for less money, but argues upon very vague and general grounds, that the additional hundred over and above what they received in New York, and which we, in common with the reasonable portion of the community deem excessive, has been fitly bestowed, and that no diminution is necessary.
The main point to be considered in the matter, the Star does not touch upon at all. What was the necessity of raising the wages of the force at all? What was the motive which induced the Legislature to make the increase? Before that, as everybody knows, and as we intimated in our previous article, $700 was thought good pay, and there were plenty of good men glad to serve at that rate that, too, at a time of general prosperity, when labor of all kinds was in demand and well-remunerated. But when the Metropolitan Police Bill went into effect, the Legislature, supposing the Police to be wedded to the fortunes of Fernando Wood, in order to sap their allegiance and lure them over to the ranks of the opposition, threw in the additional hundred, simply—“not to put too fine a point on it”—as a bribe. There is the whole affair in a nutshell.
	The Star knows, or ought to know, as well as we do, that in these times the men now holding police berths could not average, at their ordinary occupations, more than $500 or at most $600 per year. Why, then, should small property owners, who are now actually suffering from the burden of taxation, be called upon to contribute two or three hundred dollars, extra, more than there is any real and absolute necessity for, to the support of our patrol-men! Very many in the community are in favor of cutting down the salaries of these lucky office-holders to $600. But others, and we ourselves are of the number, only ask the just and reasonable reduction of $100, which would place policemen’s salaries just where they were under the old regime and above which they ought never have been raised. Until the Star can advance some arguments more cogent than the loose generalities which it employs in the article referred to, we shall continue to adhere to the same opinion.
