8 September 1857
“Our State Banks—Unfounded Apprehensions”
Our readers do not require to be reminded that the present is a time of general distrust and apprehension of corporate enterprise and individual credit—that men look suspiciously at every bit of the “paper medium” that comes into their hands, and feel a nervous apprehension that at any moment it may, like the money in the fairy tale, turn into worthless rags in their pockets.
It may not be uninteresting just now to inquire for a moment into this matter and see how far this wide-spread feeling of insecurity which almost amounts to a panic, is justified by facts.
In the first place, then, as far as this State is concerned, when a new bank is formed within its limits, it cannot, as in some of the Western and Southern States, commence issuing circulating notes at its own pleasure—but on the contrary it must first buy and pay for every note it issues. They must be bought of the Superintendent of the Bank Department, and paid for in State Securities worth more than a hundred cents on or a dollar, or in Bonds and Mortgages on unencumbered lands worth double the amount secured. The bit of paper which composes a New York bank-bill represents, therefore, not simply the amount of bullion reposing in the bank vaults, but the public wealth and the fertile acres of this great Empire State. Whenever a bank fails, then, to redeem its notes, the Superintendent of the Bank Department has but to sell the securities deposited by the bank in question, and he has means more than ample enough to redeem them, to the last note, at their full value. All this alarm, therefore, concerning the New York State bank-notes thus secured, is simply nonsense, and never could have existed if the greatest ignorance had not prevailed on the subject.
As to creditors and depositors, the matter stands thus: When one of our State banks stops, every debt it owes may be sued for and recovered from its separate individual stockholders—each one of whom is personally liable for his proportionate share of it. Such is the remedy ready at hand for all depositors who have any deposit to lose.
There is little or no cause for the apprehensions which have been felt by so many with reference to this matter. South and West, the banks may tumble down like so many cardboard castles, but in our own State they are “sound” as a rock, and will either stand unmoved by any shock, or if they fall, there is no possibility of fraud or suffering or wrong.
