9 December 1857
“The Jury System”
Probably there is no part of our judicial arrangements so little understood as the system referred to in the caption of this article. Certainly there is none which so directly affects the most important and the most cherished interests of society. When we consider that our lives, our liberties, and our fortunes are absolutely dependent on the integrity, the intelligence and the impartiality of our juries, it cannot fail to be perceived that society has the deepest interest in the laws and regulations which are enacted and adopted for the purpose of securing, in all their integrity, the great objects for which the trial by jury was institutionalized and is sustained. Ordinarily, no man can collect a debt—no man can get possession of his property, be it real or personal, if it be wrongfully withheld from him—no man can assert a legal right or vindicate an illegal wrong, without the intervention of the trial by jury. The system, therefore, not only affects every man’s pocket, but touches every man’s personal rights. Rights are nothing without remedies. No man would give a copper, or (to speak in the latest mint vernacular) a ‘nickel’ to be legally entitled to a right or privilege which should be incapable of being enforced or made effectual by due process of law. The only “process of law” provided for us, in such cases, is the trial by jury. Let us inquire what is this trial by jury, and what does, and what ought it to report.
The system of trial by jury is one of the most ancient institutions known to our law. Historians and commentators alike have failed to fix the date of its origin. By some it is ascribed to the golden age of good King Alfred, constantly singing—
“For it was in the golden prime
Of Good Haroun Al Raschid;”
by others it has been attributed to those epochs more mysterious than “the years before the flood,” of whose events and transactions no credible history is extant. By all it is agreed to be the most stable bulwark of civil liberty, and the most substantial defence of private rights. 
It is not, however, so material to ascertain the precise date of its origin, as to be informed of its practical operation and effect in this our day and generation. We can well believe that the machinery which was admirably adapted to working out the great ends of civil society in the year of our Lord 800, may be found to be sadly defective in accomplishing the ends which are necessary to be attained in this nineteenth century of the Christian Era. Al. was a good boy, and no doubt made a worthy and accomplished Rex. But do we not live under a “Constitution” of these “United States,” and is not our Great Chief and Grand Mogul, Buchanan, christened—not ‘Alfred’ but ‘James?’ As well might one argue that the vizors and coats of mail of that antique period are suitable to the requirements of modern warfare, as to contend that any institution, simply because it is Alfredian, should be permitted to pass unchallenged in these “piping times of peace.”
We do not, nevertheless, intend to impugn the validity, or question the necessity of the trial by jury, as the safest basis of the judgments of our legal tribunals. We only mean to intimate that mere antiquity cannot, and ought not to, command our reverence or respect, except in so far as it furnishes useful and steady lights and guides to illuminate and point out the way to relief from our present and pressing necessities. The talk, therefore, about the jury system as being venerable, hoary, and commended to us by the practice and observance of ages is—is—in short, is mere talk, and the practical, important, and pressing questions remain, Do we need juries to-day? Is our system of obtaining them the right and sound system? Do they faithfully discharge the duties imposed upon them? And, if they do not, why not, and where in can the system be amended? Upon these topics we propose soon to express our sentiments freely and fully.
