9 July 1857
“The Territories—Polygamy—And ‘Domestic Institutions’”
	It will be interesting to see how the “National Democracy” will extricate themselves, time to come, from the tight spot they placed themselves in by the main principle of their famous Kansas-Nebraska act. They won the last Presidential election under it, from their opponents forking off on two candidates, but how is it going to stand them out in future? especially upon the great Utah question? For, said the famous act aforesaid,
“It being the true intent and meaning of this act not to legislate slavery into any Territory or State, nor to exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way,” &c.
If so, then havn’t the Utahans the equal right to “regulate” theirs?
Have not the supposed old foxes of the party turned out to be old geese?
The truth is, Congress will have to return to the active responsibility of the government of the Territories—the popular domain. That they should pass laws to exclude slavery, polygamy, felonies, land-monopolising, paper-money, or any partialisms, (preferences of nativity, or the like,)—and laws to exclude generally all that would put back the prosperity of the common people of the future State, the farmers and working-persons—such we conceive to be the duty of Congress. And the longer they postpone the assumption of that duty, the more trouble will grow and bear fruit around them.
	We have spoken of laws to exclude or prohibit. Judge N.B. Morse, at a democratic meeting in Brooklyn last fall, made a great point against the opponents of his party, that the said opponents are characterised by this wish to prohibit; while the democratic principle, he said, was more to affirm. We believe, against Judge Morse, that the true theory of laws should be simply to prohibit. “We are governed too much.” A few laws of prohibiting, as far as laws can possibly prohibit, all violations of liberty, life and property—and the work is done.
	We have also to add that if it be not established, as one of the foundation-grounds of the laws of this nation, (and therefore specially applicable to the Territories,) that man cannot hold property in man, then there is nothing established, and we are all, as much as ever, without form and void and moving in darkness.

