9 July 1857
“Free Academies at Public Cost”
	The second annual report of Superintendent Bulkley, like the first, is decided in its advocacy of the establishment of a free academy. Fortunately the good sense of many members of the Board of Education, and still more the control of the Common Council over the appropriations to be placed in the hands of that Board, will still secure the city from so expensive and improper an outlay.
	Meanwhile, W.H. Nelson, Esq., one of the members of the Board of Education of New York, has just presented to that body, in a concise and intelligible form, demonstrative reasons against the establishment of a free academy for females, as suggested by other members of that body. Many of the arguments of Mr. Nelson apply equally to a male free academy or high school.
	For instance, while Mr. Bulkley bases his advocacy of such an institution upon the doing away by its means of “all invidious distinctions of caste,” by affording to a few of the poor as good an education as can be had by any of the rich, Mr. Nelson, with far more practical foresight, shows that a free academy would induce an opposite state of things, by creating these very invidious distinctions of caste among the scholars. None but the children of well-to-do parents could afford to stay long enough at the schools to qualify them for the academy, and then spend a further term in the academy itself. The very poor, for whom, be it remembered, the school system was mainly created, could not support their daughters at a central institution years after they became capable of earning their own support elsewhere. The majority of people do not want their daughters to be trained to become authoresses and poets; but only that they may receive sufficient education to serve as the basis of life-long improvement and self cultivation, and which will qualify them to become good and intelligent wives and mothers.
	But Mr. Nelson does not confine himself to speculations on the future in opposing the free academy scheme. He points to the fact that now, the most capable teachers of the New York schools bestow little attention on their majority of their pupils, compared with that which they lavish on the few they are preparing for the male free academy. He states that the only use of the male free academy has been as a bonus to the wealthy, to induce them to send their children to the public schools. Mr. Bulkley also evidently had this in view, when he gives among the reasons for a free academy here that “it supersedes the necessity of the multiplicity of private schools.” Surely it is not the business of a Board of Education to enter into a competition with or a crusade against these private schools.
	For those intending to become teachers, we have already a Normal School, and for others the education given in the public schools is or ought to be sufficient. Let it be the aim, then, of Superintendent Bulkley and every other man entrusted with like responsible duties, to stimulate and develop the excellent capacities of the schools we have, rather than to found others of a different, or as it is termed, superior kind. We want a race of men and women turned out from our schools, not of pedants and blue-stockings. One genuine woman is worth a dozen Fanny Ferns; and to make a woman a credit to her sex and an ornament to society, no further education is needed than that of which the public schools lay the foundation, and personal study and self improvement in after life must build the superstructure.
