9 November 1857
“Rotation in Office”
The County of Kings has been singularly fortunate in the character of the nominations made by both parties at the election which has just taken place. With at most three or four exceptions, the candidates on both sides were men possessing more than ordinary qualifications for the positions which they were respectively designated for. Probably this was owing in a great degree to the fact that the struggle was expected to be a close one, so that it was supposed the personal character of the men might have some weight in affecting the result.
We speak therefore with reference mainly to other cases than that of our own recent election when we say that it is becoming exceedingly difficult to re-elect good men, or to eject improper ones from office. The neighboring city furnishes us with examples in point.
Mayor Wood, who has long been reprobated by the larger half of his constituents, and whose last act, of inciting the needy to plunder the opulent, has alarmed and disgusted the better portion of those who have hitherto stood by him, can continue in office as long as he pleases; while Surrogate Bradford, whose efficiency as a public officer is everywhere admitted, has been rejected at the polls.
It is evident that the office-holder who depends on his official uprightness and rectitude to secure hos continued tenure in office, reckons without his host. He leans on a broken reed, in trusting to the esteem of the general public, while the official who panders to the prejudices and interests of classes and organised bodies, as against the general good, makes thereby warm friends, on whose exertions he may rely to secure him another lease of power.
 A Governor who vetoes a bill, however improper its provisions, thereby makes a host of enemies, in the persons of those reckoned on being benefited by its passage; and the more flagrant the swindle, the greater, probably, will be the number of those interested in the scheme, and wrathful against the executive who kills it. An Assemblyman or Alderman who resolutely sets his face against legislation for the few at the expense of the many, will surely earn the hatred of the few, and that without obtaining the gratitude of the many. An Auditor who persistently cuts down exorbitant bills, or a head of a department who will not perform useless jobs, is sure to create for himself a perfect legion of enemies, in the persons of those whose pockets are thus immediately affected. Against the bitter opposition of these, the negative approbation of “the public” weighs very lightly.
Contractors, jobbers, and lobbymen will work like Hercules in favor of an official who has favored them at the public expense, and against one who has served the public instead of them. And the mass of honest voters, who mean to do right, instead of standing by those who have stood by the tax-payers during their whole term, allow themselves to be led away by the nonsensical cry of rotation in office, and thus oust good men in favor of doubtful or bad ones.
By adapting this newfangled heresy of rotation, by placing party interests first, and the public good second, and voting against the best men, because they were not on “our ticket,” the public have rendered it a man’s interest to be unfaithful in office. They have only themselves to blame if they are badly served. 
How can we expect an alderman to vote against an unnecessary appropriation for the fire department, when he knows that the company requesting it can defeat him when he comes up for re-election? How can we expect him to make contractors do their duty in keeping the streets clean, when he is aware that they influence votes enough to turn the scale against him if he succeeds in getting a re-nomination? The people will never be served well until they adopt the rule of rewarding by re-election those who have done their duty faithfully while in office.
