9 October 1857
“Epicurean”
“Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.”
The quotation occurred to us the other night as we glanced at the living sea of heads that filled the parquetted and dress-circle, and tier above tier, of a fashionable Broadway theatre. Exquisite music, glittering diamonds, bright eyes, wreathed smiles, white glancing arms, and delicate perfumes made up a scene very roseate and fascinating to the harassed victim of the financial pressure—very grateful to the mind, wearied by the squabbles of bears and bulls, by the continuous cry of failures and suspensions, and by the depressing influences of the time, which are weighing down even the lightest hearts as with a leaden incubus. Very inspiring was the scene, and quite as much so in front as behind the proscenium. On the mimic stage idealities were realized—in front of it, realities were idealized. The audience, as is usually the case, was the better worth looking at and studying of the two.
It is a curious feature of the times—and yet not so curious, only seemingly so, when we look at it aright, that the unparalleled monetary distress, and the universal want, doubt and apprehension, have not diminished, in the smallest degree, the crowds of pleasure seekers that nightly throng the temples of amusement. Manufactories may stand still, shops may be customless, South sea missions may “pass round the plate” with barren results, but the drama still flourishes like a green bay tree, and draws its ailment from sources apparently the most unpromising—music, still “hath charms”—beauty, as exemplified in the modern ballet (alack-a-day!) still fascinates with the old, perennial hocus-pocus, and all goes merrily on. Relief is what men want—relief from the immediate pressure of that “dark care” which clings to them closer than a brother—relief and diversion, no matter of what nature or how temporary it may be, anything that will yield,--
“Respite, respite and Nepenthe;”
From the intolerable weight upon the brain and the aching at the heart.
The immortal Weller intimates, in one of his profound remarks, that when a man is in very great trouble, he straightaway makes for the nearest restaurant and incontinently devour three dozen on the half-shell. Certain it is that as misfortunes thicken around us, the relish for amusement is very apt to increase in proportion. The instinct is the same, whether it be displayed in the humble instance quoted by Sam, or whether it be evinced on a grand scale, as when the citizens of Paris, in the very crisis of that grand and ghastly and terrible drama of the Reign of Terror, rushed to the theatre to laugh at sparkling vaudevilles and watch the twinkling feet of the newest danseuse. It is the old Epicurean philosophy—older than the hills. The skeleton may sit at the feast, but what matters it? Cover it over, shut the eyes and be gay while there is a chance. So say the people.
