9 October 1957
“Jury Duty”
What kind of men should compose our juries? To whom should be delegated the power of pronouncing upon the guilt or innocence, the infamy or good name, the life or death of their fellows? What are to be the qualifications for duties so onerous and for responsibilities so vast?
These queries require no very deep thought in the framing of appropriate replies. Undoubtedly, we need honest, upright, conscientious, and intelligent men, with a due sense of the grave nature of their “calling;” with a serious determination to their duty to the community to the best of their ability, without fear or favor; with a clear-headed quickness of perception in detecting the salient points of evidence and in disentangling the sophistries of lawyers; and with a freedom from prejudice that will enable them to decide upon the merits of a case, so far as is possible to fallible humanity, without fear or favor.
This is the ideal juror. How is it in reality? Those of our readers whose unlucky fate has brought them within the web-like precincts where that bloated spider, “the Law,” holds her court, will be enabled to answer from dearly-bought experience. Those who have happily escaped a personal interest in the question must be pretty well-informed, by this time, of the present condition of that “glorious institution and keystone of our liberties”—Trial by Jury—from the most cursory examination of their daily paper. The last instance and the most glaring of the utter incompetency of three-fourths of our jurymen, is still fresh in the minds of all—we mean, of course, the disagreement in the Cancemi case. We believe that that very case, with its absurdly “lame and impotent” conclusion, has accomplished much in awakening the public attention to the present lamentable state of this most important institution.
Everybody who has the slightest acquaintance with the matter is aware that a really intelligent juryman is a rara avis. It is a common remark in the law courts that such and such a man “is not stupid enough” to serve, and it seems to be conceded that man whose services are really worth having generally contrives to get excused from serving on some pretext or other. A proportion, very greatly larger than is generally thought, of our best citizens whose services, in such a connection, would be invaluable, are exempt either from having been formerly attached to the fire department or the militia. When to these are added the great number who are excused on various grounds—often sufficiently frivolous—the quality of the residuum may be inferred.
The truth is that there is a general dislike among our substantial, intelligent and well-to-do citizens, to the performance of jury duty. They find it irksome and unprofitable, and look upon it as a bore and a waste of time. It is apathy which keeps so many from the polls at election times. Wrapped up in their private business concerns and domestic circles, they too often neglect that judicious amount of public spirit which every member of a community who acknowledges himself as such, should possess, and with the careless and good-natured remark, that “the country is sure to be safe,” let the whole machinery of the body politic fall under the control of the clever knaves who make a business of and even earn a livelihood by the wire-pulling behind the scenes.
A moment of reflection must convince every man who can reason at all, of the dangerous and fatal consequences that must eventuate from such an unhealthful state of public sentiment. Nay, it needs no reflection—the truth is plain as noonday. When a lethargic indifference of this kind, upon vital points, has once thoroughly permeated a community, a general decay of public spirit and public virtue may be looked for. When men neglect the primary duties which they owe to their country, affection for that country and for the principles which it represents, must be waxing faint and feeble.
So far as the matter of jury duty is concerned, it should be esteemed one of the highest privileges of a citizen, and the obligations which it imposes should be borne by all with unhesitating cheerfulness. The law, which, in exempting firemen and citizen soldiers from jury duty, deprives us of some of our most valuable men for that service, should be repealed or at all events, modified. Were the number of jurors increased in this manner, the calls upon them would not come with inconvenient frequency—we should not have to resort to such dernier resorts as “talesmen,” a class that no more ought to exist than “professional witnesses”—we should have less disgraceful verdicts and still more disgraceful disagreements, and the ends of justice would stand a fairer chance of being met, fully and fairly.
