9 September 1857
“Politics and Criminal Justice”
If a poor ragged half-starved urchin abstracts a penny roll from a baker’s cart or counter, though urged by the pains of hunger to the deed; or if a badly clothed tatterdemalion of the female sex gratifies her innate love of display by appropriating some tawdry piece of finery, temptingly, and, as we think, foolishly placed outside the store of some enterprising dry goods dealer, the outraged majesty of the law is no less prompt to avenge the heinous offense, than it ever was at any former time. But if a reputedly wealthy merchant seeks to refill his coffers, emptied by extravagant and ostentatious living, by appropriating funds confided to his honor for safe keeping; or if the notorious hero of a hundred fights and brawls maims or wounds an innocent and unoffending citizen, the arm of Justice, so swift to seize the minor criminal, seems paralyzed, and her eye, so prompt to mark the least divergence of the child of poverty from the path of rectitude, appears blind to the offense. It would seem as if in the very audacity of the crime lay the safety of the criminal. Or does it not appear that the poverty and insignificance of the offender in the one case were the real offence, rather than the breach of the law; and that the legal net is so delicately constructed as to entrap all the little fishes, but has not strength enough to prevent the larger ones from breaking through? It is not our purpose at present to point out the advantages which a criminal derives from wealth; our present reference is to the numerous cases in which notorious rowdies—heads of gangs of offenders—men who actually live by outraging the law, and on the unenviable reputation they thus acquire—are suffered to go unwhipt of justice. Just as evidently as the addition of two to two makes four, does this state of things follow as an inevitable corollary from the fact that the road to the office of District Attorney lies through the primary elections, to which these men hold the key.
The wonder is how, with Judges and Prosecuting officers chosen by such instrumentality, the administration of criminal justice does not suffer more. That it does suffer, and to no small extent, will not be denied. In the Eastern District we may mention, as a single instance, that of a man who had committed assaults and batteries enough to fill a criminal calendar; yet he has probably never seen the inside of a jail or Penitentiary—for his valuable services could not be dispensed with at the primaries. He was known to “travel on his muscle”—and it was not, like Jordan, a hard road to travel, for it somehow procured him predominance in hole and corner political meetings, and consequent immunity from arrest and prosecution. But long security made him imprudent, and so at last he got into trouble by assaulting one of his own associates, and had to quit the city. We do not intend these remarks to apply wholly or even principally to this city. We desire to call attention to the thorough exemption from criminal jurisdiction which the Jim Irving and Pat Kerrigan class seem to have, wherever they may be. District Attorneys seem never able to procure a conviction against men of this sort, let them be indicted ever so often.
But, in truth, it is equally unfortunate for the people and their representative, the District Attorney, that they never can learn what he is about, or whether he has really exerted himself to extricate forgotten indictments from the oblivion into which so many are plunged. When a man is arrested, the fact is chronicled, and so when he is committed for trial; it also known when an indictment is found against him, and if he is tried and sentenced that fact is known also. The proceedings of the committing magistrate and the Court of trial are divulged; and whatever delay or obstruction occurs between, the public lay at the District Attorney’s door. If a poor, friendless offender lie six months in jail before his trial arrives, the public, when they hear of it, blame the District Attorney. For the sake of that officer, then, no less than for that of the public, it should be regularly a part of the Supervisor’s duty to require, and the District Attorney to render, a complete account of all indictments found, prisoners committed, and trials held, with accompanying facts and dates. Indeed, we believe this has been required by the Supervisors at some former time; and we think if the request were renewed to the present incumbent of the District Attorneyship, he would, for the sake of his own official character and from regard for the ends of justice, promptly furnish the desired information.
