

August 1, 1846


The Poor Wretches!


    Yes; poor wretches, indeed, are the inmates of our ‘‘civilized’’ jails! for, with all our  15 boasted  improvement  on  the  past,  we  have  not  much  bettered  the  condition  or reformatory influence of our places for criminals. By a late document emanating from
the N. Y. Prison Association, and describing the condition of the ‘‘Tombs’’ there, it is stated, (and we would call particular attention to the whole of the record) that the average  number  of  males  in  confinement awaiting  trial,  under  sentence,  and  for  20 examination, in the prison, is 127, and of females 47; the number swelling on some days to 250: and that the total commitments for last year were over 10,000, of which more than 600 were boys and girls.—The amount of religious teachings given to the males  on  the  Sabbath,  is  almost  literally  nothing.—Occasionally  they  are  there addressed by philanthropic individuals; but these efforts are very rare, and no reliance  25 can or ought to be placed on them. The females are somewhat better supplied; owing
to the self-denying and persevering efforts of a small number of Christian women.
The same document also informs us that the Sabbath employment of the male
prisoners is the perusal of licentious publications, smoking, &c., whilst the ribald jest
and heaven-daring profanity takes the place of the more appropriate acts of prayer and  30
praise. In sad truth, the City Prison is to multitudes but the gate of perdition. Here are
to be found the hardened and reckless criminal; the polluted and polluting woman; the
ragged idler; the bloated and delirious drunkard; and the artful and scheming villain.
Into such society as this, are indiscriminately thrown poor but innocent witnesses,
whose very souls revolt at these degrading associations; young boys and girls detected  35
in their first petty offences against the laws of society; children of tender years, guilty
of no crimes but those of poverty and the loss of parents, awaiting their passage to the
City Foundling Institute on Long Island; the poor and afflicted on their way to the
Alms House; the blighted mind bound for the Asylum of Lunacy; and finally, the
honest emigrant, who, having braved the perils of the sea for a home of liberty and  40
plenty, is transferred from the confinement of the ship to incarceration in a den of
felons and prostitutes, thus saving, by the loss of his character and self-respect, and the
immolation of his bright hopes, a few paltry shillings to his importer.
With the preparers of that document, we too say, our wonder ceases at the increase
of crime, and the unblushing exhibitions of vice in our cities, when we see public  45
institutions, which should exert a renovating moral influence on their culpable or
unfortunate inmates, thus converted into instruments of gross depravation. For this
state of things there can be no justification; for the remedy is in the hands of the

4	  


constituted authorities. The claims of a common humanity, the well being of our own endeared family circles, and honorable regard to the fair fame of the city, and the impulses of a larger patriotism,—all start up, arguments strong and numberless, for the immediate action of those having the power to eradicate these festering evils.
5




August 1, 1846

10


City Intelligence
[A Steamboat Trip to Glen Cove]


    Did you ever, sweet reader, lean over the bows of a steamboat, under swift headway, and mark the keen-cut speed with which she divides the waters—and the up-springing diverging jet she makes at the same time? It is a graceful thing, all that.
15    The fragrant saltness of the sea-wind comes at you in a rough caress; an exhilirating consciousness of swift motion adds to the ‘fun’; and that impulse, which no human mind is without, to be taken out of the present, is constantly gratified. After this token, (and something more, perhaps,) there is a beautiful pleasure in swift sailing, on a large sheet of water. Then love we to get bow-ward, where there is nothing of the boat and
20    the people to be seen—where, abstracted from the artificial method of the rest, one realizes only Nature’s noblest developments, the sky, the immeasurable vault of air, and the sweep of the waters.
    There is a spot on the north side of Long Island, which must have been made by one of the younger and more poetical journeymen of the Mighty Dame that has to do
25    with such things; younger, because the spot bears the impress of a careless fresh hand—and poetical because it utterly defies all the rules of prose. Glen Cove was a good change from Musquito Cove; because you couldn’t explain to every body that it wasn’t named by the latter title, on account of an unusual frequency of gallinippers, but from its having been in old times the site of a village of Musquito Indians. To Glen
30    Cove wended we our joyful way yesterday, (31st) in the good steamer Excelsior—with a comfortable party of nearly three hundred ladies and men, beside. The band played any quantity of music, and we had dancing, and all sorts of quiet fun. But the great height and glory of the time, consisted in divers roasted clams, (noble edible!) which were cooked in beds on the ground, and served up in the ‘natural way.’ These had we,
35    with much ham and bread beside, under the shade of the trees at the aforementioned Glen Cove. Nor was the least merit of the arrangement, the comicality of Dr. Valentine, which was certainly the most comical comicality we ever saw in our life.




40
August 4, 1846



The President’s Veto


On the River and Harbor Bill lately passed by Congress, was yesterday sent in to
45    the H. of R. The telegraphic despatch, in its terse way, gives, as Mr. Polk’s reasons for
disagreeing with the bill, that his predecessors had vetoed similar bills—they had
given sufficient reasons for so doing; he would add but a few; he says the power to

  	5


make  such  appropriations  as  are  contained  in  the  river  and  harbor  bill,  is  both unconstitutional and inexpedient. He argues the question at length, recounts the evils that would follow the carrying out of the principles of  ill, and besides constitutional objections there are others.
For our humble part, we think the President has done just right in this veto. Gen.	5
Jackson would have done the same thing.





August 4, 1846

10
A Word to Our ‘‘Native’’ Friends


    The present population of the United States is about one person, (counting all, men, women, children, slaves, etc.) to about seventy five acres. Now that amount of land can easily be made to support one hundred persons. Thus much for the fear that  15 we shall before long have an excess of population here. We have now, (and we shall have  far  more,)  about  three  fifths  as  much  land  as  all  the  kingdoms  of  Europe combined—and we have, as yet, not above one fourteenth their population. Besides,
our system of government, (until we get the favorite whig measures, a national bank, high tariff, funding of the state debts, and such like,) will ever preclude the throwing of  20 such monstrously unequal amounts of wealth into the possession of a select few. This alone will make the capacities of this country for human support and comfort, double what they would be in the same extent of land under the monarchical system which pervades Europe.
25




August 4, 1846


City Intelligence
30

VIEW  OF  BROOKLYN, L. I.; FROM  U. S. HOTEL, N. Y.; drawn from nature, and on stone, by E. Whitefield

    This is a picture, about forty inches by fourteen, printed in colors, of the view which Brooklyn presents from the top of the U. S. Hotel, near Fulton ferry N. Y. It brings in the whole outline of the city, and though impossible, of course, on such a  35 limited surface, and with the arrangement for producing the more important effects, to give every thing in detail, the view is one which can not easily be surpassed. The artist
has done his work well.—All of the general features of Brooklyn are preserved with great truth, particularly those on the shore.—The Heights, the Atlantic Dock, and the hills to the south—with the Navy Yard, and the elevations to the east, are all truthfully  40 given. No one can look on this picture without realizing that Brooklyn is indeed a beautiful city; and that she only needs ordinary care, (in the way of planting and preserving trees, constructing a park on Fort Greene, &c.) to clinch her reputation as
the city of this part of the United States.
A picture like this of Mr. Whitefield’s may well, of course, be in the possession of  45
every Brooklynite; and perhaps there is hardly a more appropriate ornament for the
walls of our dwelling rooms than such a neatly framed ‘‘View of Brooklyn.’’

6	  




August 5, 1846


A Thought


See you that wild boy—that unweeded human garden, with a soil so fertile, but
5    whose very richness for good, has given fuller strength to the brambles and entangled
wood-thorns? He is but a duplicate of many like him. His nature, as you behold it, is
the result of a wayward childhood, and of those thousand errors in education, which
swarm among us—among our schools, and in the domestic group. [Quotation, with
introduction, omitted—20 3⁄4     ll.]
10



August 5, 1846

15


That ‘‘Ruin’’

    We are willing that the ‘‘frost’’ part of the following story shall tell against our own side, if any whig, (or democrat either,) whose case the said story may suit, will but treasure the moral, and act the part of the wiser gardener. It may be as well to premise, however, that nine-tenths of all the disturbance sought to be produced by the panic-
20    makers, is purely an imaginary affair—and has no more substantial basis than its authors’ brains—and that is weak enough, heaven knows! The story in point is as follows: Two gardeners, who were neighbors, had their crops of early peas killed by the frost.—One of them came to console with the other. ‘‘Ah!’’ cried he, ‘‘how unfortunate! Do you know, neighbor, that I have done nothing but fret ever since?—
25    But bless me, you seem to have a fine, healthy crop coming. What are these?’’ ‘‘Why these are what I sowed immediately after my loss.’’ ‘‘What coming up already?’’ said the fretter. ‘‘Yes,’’ replied the other, ‘‘while you were fretting, I was working.’’
    — We cannot believe so meanly of our fellow citizens, of the operative classes, as to suppose that they will think themselves ‘‘ruined’’ by the withdrawal of a bounty on
30    their labor—even allowing all that the rabider part of the whigs affirm, about the necessity of such a bounty—for protective duties are but a bounty, in plain truth. Have not the American people as staunch hearts, as stout nerves, as nimble figures, as much physical power, as the men of old Europe? Have they not a far greater average mental power? Is not the fact of the immense distance the latter will have to come with their
35    goods to us—joined with the duties as they are, and the fact that the raw material of their fabrics is mostly brought from equally distant places to them—are not these
‘‘protection’’ enough? Why, it is an insult to the noble American workingman to speak of ‘‘protecting’’ him in this way! to stand between his superiority, and chances so immensely beneath his! Rightly viewing the impudent tone pursued by the whig
40    prints,  it  is  more  truly  offensive  to  the  independent  working  population  of  this republic than any other tone that could be tried!




45    August 6, 1846
The First Session of the Twenty-Ninth Congress

Will come to its finish on the night of Monday next 10th inst. Including to-day, (6th)
therefore, it has four working days, in which to do what has been left undone, and

  	7


remedy any imperfections in what it has done. As most of the important measures, however, have been already either settled, or put in train for settlement, those four days will hardly bring forth any thing of vivid interest. Let us glance a moment at the character and deeds of the twenty-ninth congress, thus far:
Taken altogether, this congress has probably earned for itself, and deserves, the	5
name of the most democratic, staunch, and fearless, of any that has met since the peace of
’83. It has lifted itself out more from the accursed influence of the monopolists, the
paper-money and the banking influence, and the ‘‘select few’’ influence, than any
other! It has shown the earnest of striking bolder, deeper blows at corruption—launching
on wider, more sweeping reforms—taking the national good in its largest sense, as the  10
rule of guidance—than any other. Oppose the reforms which this congress has started,
as the whigs like to oppose them, it is as certain as fate, that they cannot be infringed
upon till Mr. Polk goes out of office, in 1850. It is, of course, not in human ken to tell for
certain what three years will bring forth: but for our humble part we have an abiding
faith that the changes of the future will not be on the backward track, at all events.  15
One only exception have we to the meed of praise due the closing session of
congress—and that exception involves the Harbor &c. bill. If the principle of that bill
were established, it would not only constitute a drain upon the Treasury that could not
be supplied without the most oppressive taxation, but it would create so much of local
jealousy and dissension, as to destroy the harmony of the Union. Indeed at this moment,  20
a large majority of the members no doubt approve of Mr. Polk’s veto, though party and
local interests bound them to the bill. But with respect to other great measures, it is
surely difficult to say how their action could have been bettered. By them peace has
been assured with England, in the very teeth of imminent danger, and on terms of high
advantage to the United States; the loud voice of common sense, common prudence,  25
and a large majority of the people, has been responded to in the passage of a Tariff bill
from which a still more liberal system will in due time follow; the Independence of the
government from a connection with banks has been effected; the matter of the public
lands has been thoroughly sifted, and though congress may not act definitely now, the
foundation of such action is laid; the claims of the heirs of Fulton have been recognized;  30
the Smithsonian bequest has been appropriated to its proper use; the French spoliation
claims have been actually passed upon! at last; and to crown the good, and by no means
the least good, either, the new Printing bills cut off the pernicious connection between
the government and any stipendiary press, or ‘‘organ’’—a new, bold, and most com-
mendable principle! How finely do these movements—particularly in respect to the  35
five last enumerated matters—compare with the whig congress of ‘42! a body without
consistency—but as a body, imbecile, timid, and committed to local likes and dislikes!
It may be said that we are looking on the favorable side of the picture,—and that it
might not be impossible to find points of condemnation, too. Perhaps so. But the great
profit and glory of the good, tower up so high as to hide, in our eyes, the little bad.  40





August 7, 1846


Peace with Mexico	45


    Rumors—both hot and cold, and ‘any quantity’—have been wafted hither from Washington, within the past two days, about a Peace with Mexico. The first rumor of all stated that the President had sent in some message to Congress—that he had called
    
8	  


Mr. Slidell, (whom Paredes rejected,) and that a plan was on foot for healing the rupture. Then comes the rumor cold: it is not so sure, after all, that the plan will amount to any thing. Then comes the rumor tepid: it may, and it may not.
One authority states that ‘‘Paredes and the Mexican Congress propose to give up
5    the whole of California and Santa Fe to the United States, as an indemnity for the
expenses of the war and for the instalments yet due by Mexico to American citizens.
Mexico  is  at  our  feet,  it  is  true;  as  prostrate  as  ever  was  the  weakest  victim,  to
gladiatorial strength.—She must know, also, by this time, that hope of assistance or
countenance from England, is entirely futile; that sagacious country having entirely too
10    sharp a brain to get into a quarrel with us, just now. What then remains for our
Southern neighbor?—Alas! we pity the miserable thing, with all her weakness and
insolence! Still we altogether doubt the truth of the rumored proffer of Paredes. We
should be much surprised, indeed, to find it prove authentic.
With respect to the numerous tales about what Mr. Polk intends to do, in respect to
15    Mexico and the pending war, we can say little. We can say, however, that we believe he
is for the earliest peace practicable. In any honorable effort that way, he will be sustained
by the best men of the country, and of both parties. The truest, highest, largest policy of
this republic is invariably peace, except on the most urgent contingency.

20



August 7, 1846


No Slavery in Oregon


25		We are well pleased with the decisive vote by which the H. of R. yesterday (6th,) in forming the bill for the Territorial Government of Oregon, voted, 108 to 43, to have no slavery there, in the future years! Though our cool and sensible men at the North look with infinite contempt of the fanaticism of sundry Northern ‘‘abolitionists,’’ there is no denying the pernicious evil of strengthening an institution which Washington and
30    Jefferson  condemned,  and  expressed  the  most  ardent  desire  to  meliorate.—If  the
‘‘abolitionists,’’ and their foolish encouragers, would only hold their tongues, and let
the slow but sure and steady spread of political and moral truth, do its work among
the people, all that ought to be done in reference to slavery, would be done;—which,
by the by, does not involve a sudden abrogation of it. That would be a great curse to the
35    country, instead of a blessing.





August 7, 1846
40


Honor to Him Who Has Been True to  His  Conscience and Country!


In alluding in this journal, a season since, to Senator Calhoun’s vote on the first
Mexican War Bill passed by Congress, we spoke our admiration of Mr. C’s high moral
45    independence; and applauded him for that, through the motives he gave, even while
we condemned his vote. For there is really something about an upright conscientious
stand on great truths in the abstract—something in a man’s bold defiance to all mere
circumstances, when a wider and more imperious duty asks that defiance—which we
always admire, whether it come from friend or foe! It is so glorious a thing to be a free

  	9


man; free, not only in a political and physical sense—but free from one’s own timidity, from  faint-heartedness,  from  the  dread  of  sectional  scorn,  or  of  any  temporary odium—free, in a holy behalf even, from any odium! How much more glorious is it, when a high officer of the land, surrounded with certain unfair influences, lifts himself entirely out of them, and achieves that moral independence, in his truth to the average	5 of the people, of whom he is agent and trust-keeper! Ah, while the councils of this republic can show men who fear not to stand the brunt of this trial, and endure it like men, we need never fear for public virtue or public liberty!
    In a fit sequence to such a train of thought, we may bring before the reader, the man who has invoked similar thought, in many an American mind, during the past  10 few days—the Vice President of the United States [portrait omitted] George Mifflin Dallas—more honor accrues to whom by his vote at the time of the Senate tie, on the Tariff bill, than it was previously thought possible to achieve on such an occasion. [Abstract of Dallas’s life from New York Globe and letter by Dallas regarding his vote
‘‘in favor of the act of Congress to reduce the duties on imports’’ omitted—199 3⁄4   ll.]  15





August 8, 1846


The New British Cabinet	20


    We avail ourselves of the London correspondence of the Journal of Commerce to get a personal acct. of the British ministry, evidently written not only by ‘‘one who knows,’’ but one who is disposed to ‘‘nothing extenuate.’’ To hear something definite of those
who form the rule of such a land as Great Britain, must of course be acceptable to any  25 intelligent man. And perhaps the whole earth affords no higher and better study for the political economist, than our same ‘‘mother country’’—its changes—its developement
of the mightiest physical power the world ever saw—its noble spread of great truths, and of the germs of liberty! Great Britain is indeed a ‘‘great country’’—with all her aristocratical and monarchical elements. We love to contemplate her! for we can pick out  30 enough of the grand and the good in her, and her institutions, to forget (for a while,) that there are also many unjust and oppressive elements in those institutions. . . . . . 
[Introduction to and account of British Ministry omitted—165 1⁄2     ll.]

35



August 8, 1846


[The Word ‘‘Foreigners’’]


    Now, gentle reader, tell us truly, heard’st thou ever a bit of more scurrilous inanity  40 (take it at random,) than the whig organ parades, in its yesterday’s number, about our good Eagle, as follows: ‘‘It was the poor man’s friend, but only last week it hoisted its flag in glorification of a measure that will compel thousands of men who now earn good wages to winter in the poor house.’’ Likewise, ‘‘it,’’ meaning our good Eagle again, ‘‘taunts those who are not born on the soil, with being foreigners, Britishers,  45 cockneys, &c., and headed an article on Wednesday thus: ‘A word to our NATIVE friends.’ Good-bye, neighbor.’’. . . . . . . The Advertiser has too much paucity of brains
to know it—and therefore we will tell it—that the first extract above, involves a grosser insult to our American workingmen, than could be crowded, by any other

10	  


words, into a similar space! Send our sturdy citizens to the ‘‘poor house,’’ quotha— because the government will not dole out a bounty to them! Can ribald impudence go farther? . . . . . . We think the people of Brooklyn, (and elsewhere too,) must be pretty well satisfied by this time, that the splutter of ‘‘ruin’’ in consequence of the new Tariff,
5    is the merest vagary in the world. But enough on this point.
With respect to the course of our Eagle about ‘‘foreigners,’’ (a word we never, of
our own option, use in these or any columns—a word we would banish from the press
of this country, if we could,) we laugh to scorn the puny wrigglings of the Adv. to make
capital out of the way we think proper now and then to excoriate it. For the Adv. to
10    identify itself with any of the European nations, is unfair even to the wickeder phases
of those nations’ character; and as to its identifying itself with this, America—that
would be a scandal at which justice, common decency, and our Yankee fame, alike
revolt! . . . . . . Only one bit more; (for to the word-mire of yesterday’s Adv. we again
disdain a rejoinder.) Are we to understand by that frightful sentence, ‘‘Good bye,
15    neighbor,’’ that the whig organ is about to take itself off? Is it going back to England?





August 8, 1846
20


City Intelligence
[The Effect of McKay’s Bill]


    We took a turn through Burdon’s foundry and engine manufactory in Front street yesterday morning, and were surprised to witness what a panic McKay’s bill had kicked
25    up in that establishment. Since December last Mr. B. has constructed one hundred steam engines, from eight to sixty horse power; and has now under way nearly or quite fifty more. Instead of discharging any of his workmen, he is increasing them— and is now giving, and will continue to give, employment to a larger number of men than formerly. Such men as Burdon (and we may add, most of our large Brooklyn man-
30    ufacturers) require no legislative ‘protection,’ to enable them to pursue successfully a legitimate business. Their establishments are independent of congressional enactments.
    In passing through Mr. Burdon’s foundry we were impressed with the perfect system and order observed in every department. His pattern office is quite a museum. For the protection of his patterns, which are valuable, Mr. B. has recently erected a
35    large and handsome fire proof building on Pearl street, five stories high, adjoining which is a large mechanic’s shop for wood workmen. . . . . . It is all nonsense for people to talk about this bill of McKay’s reducing the wages of the mechanics. On the other hand it will reduce the price of many of the necessaries of life, and give a greater activity to the trade and industry of Brooklyn, and the rest of the U. S.
40




August 10, 1846

45


Literary Notices

PICTORIAL  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND: to be completed in about 40 Numbers. No. 6; price
25 cents. Harper & Bros. 82 Cliff st. N. Y.
As full and fine scenery and properties are to the acting of Macready or Miss
Cushman, so may ‘pictorial’ illustrations be considered to a good book.—Imagine how

  	11


much better are the intellectual exhibitions of the fine artists we have named, with the help of appropriate stage embellishments, than without. Of course the intellectual life is first to be thought of; but the other finely sets off the first, and gives it a double beauty. We will confess, for our part, a fondness for a tastily illustrated work—like
those of which the Harpers have brought out several lately—and of which the Pictorial	5
England is among the neatest. . . . . . No. 6 opens with the drowning of Prince William
and his sister, children of Henry 1st (Beauclerk.) A bold graphic wood-cut pourtrays
the  scene,  in  one  of  those  methods  that  the  fastidious  eye  can  look  over  with
satisfaction; and that, to the general reader, and particularly the young, will make an
indelible remembrance of it all. ‘‘The old chroniclers,’’ says the text, ‘‘considered the  10
prince’s tragic fate as an act of divine vengeance—as a just judgment of the Almighty;
and they thought this motion was strengthened by the circumstances of the wreck,
which happened in no storm or tempest, but in serene weather, and on a tranquil sea.
They recalled the threat of the arrogant youth, and his designs against the English
people. Henry of Huntingdon exclaims, ‘He was thinking of his future reign and  15
greatness; but God said, It shall not be thus, thou impious, it shall not be; and it so fell
out that his brow, instead of being girded with the crown of gold, was beaten against
the rocks of the ocean.’ ’’ (How masculine and nervous the run of that paragraph!) The
No. 6 is occupied with the latter part of Henry Beauclerk’s reign—the full reigns of
King Stephen and Henry II., and part of Richard Cœur de Lion’s. It has numerous  20
wood engravings, in the first style of that popular art; illustrating scenes, events, and
personages described in the text. The ‘‘great seal of Stephen,’’ for instance, brings up
before the mind of the reader the rude massive barbarism of that age—many things
which mere words could never fully convey. The same remark may be made of the
‘‘standard  of  the  English,  at  the  battle  of  Northallerton,’’  and  of  the  ‘‘murder  of  25
Becket.’’ How the unhewn roughness of the ‘great men’ of those times pervades the
minutia of the pictures mentioned; which, with a refined taste, the artist has copied as
far as possible from the contemporary transcripts of the old; or through the memorials
the old has left. Nor is the least observable thing in the Pictorial England, the landscape
scenes—which of course, differ but little now, in their general features, from the look  30
they had, in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
The study of history offers claims to all men, which are perhaps superior to the
claims of any other study. In this country, in especial, it is highly necessary that each
young American be versed in the lives of nations, the great events that have happened
in the old world, (as well as the new,) and particularly the workings of monarchies.  35
The Pictorial England, we may add, certainly presents unrivalled merits, as a book for
the intelligent young student of history. The effort in it, appears to be to give the clearest
truth—a veritable history, indeed. The typographical execution is very fine; and of the
embellishments we have already spoken. Coming in single numbers, the purchase of it
lies within the means of almost any family; for to families it is specially recommendable.  40

LIFE   OF   THE   RT.  HON.  GEORGE   CANNING.—By Robert Bell.  Harpers.
Canning had beautiful traits, even in his early youth. His mother was poor, and an
actress  on  the  stage,  (Mrs.  Hunn.)  [Quotation  illustrating  kindness  to  mother
omitted—18 1⁄2   ll.] The life of George Canning is well worth the study of all who love to  45
see the phases of political action, in the case of an ambitious and talented man; his
hopes, his fears—his rise, difficulties, and progress.—It was Canning’s lot to have
some of the bitterest party malignity poured on his head. It was also his lot to be loved
by the people, and with a true and deep affection.

12	  


    This ‘Life’ forms No. 16 of Harpers’ new Miscellany; a series which seems culled from the very choicest specimens of contemporary literature.—Print, paper, and general execution, are good.

5    MODERN  BRITISH   PLUTARCH;  or, Lives of Men distinguished in the recent history  of England, for their Talents, Virtues, or Achievements. By W. C. Taylor, LLD. Harpers. Burke, Chatham, Adam Clarke, Lord Clive, Captain Cook, Fox, Franklin, Warren Hastings, Bishop Heber, Nelson, Pitt, Walter Scott, Wilberforce, Wellington!—great names! thought we, as we opened the somewhat singular melange of characters that
10    Dr. Taylor has collected together in this book. How much of the destinies of the British nation—why may we not say, of the world?—have been affected by the action of the men whose names we have just written! Some of the storied ones of earth! How rich with meaning, is the life of each of them!
The ‘Modern British Plutarch’ forms No. 17 of Harpers’ Miscellany; and is printed
15    in the same excellent manner as the previous numbers.





August 10, 1846
20


Sue’s New Work


    The Harpers are publishing a new novel by the popular author of the Wandering Jew, entitled ‘‘Martin, the Foundling; or, the Memoirs of a Valet de Chambre.’’ The first number, illustrated with spirited engravings, is already issued.
25




August 11, 1846

30


‘‘Injustice’’ to Ireland

    The new British minister, while he promises justice to Ireland civilly, declares that he dare not meddle with the established church there. And what is the established church there? The Boston Post pertinently answers that question: A few pampered clergy of a church, the richest in the world, who are feasting in poor Ireland upon
35    tithes plundered from the Catholic population against their consciences; and thus the most odious religious despotism on earth exhibits itself in a state of society where nine- tenths of the people are of the Catholic faith, and yet are compelled by law to starve their wives and children in order to contribute to the luxurious livings of the protestant clergy, who do not represent one-eighth of the population of the whole country.
40




August 11, 1846

45


Public Flogging

    The English papers by the Gt. Western, mention that considerable excitement has been caused through Great Britain, in reference to flogging, in the public service. A
    
  	13


young soldier named Frederick White, a private in the 7th Royal Hussars, was lately flogged to death! So disgusting was the scene—and so horrid!—that eight of his fellow soldiers, (the corps were compelled to witness it,) fainted away! White, however, bore the torture heroically, merely requesting that he might not be struck so repeatedly on
the neck. [Events leading to another flogging omitted—13 1⁄2     ll.]	5
The European Times very properly remarks of these brutal proceedings: ‘‘There
are enlightened men in the army—gentlemen soldiers—whose souls sicken at such
exhibitions. They find that moral is far more effective than physical punishment in
restraining the vicious and reforming the dissolute. But there are other meaner spirits
who, clad in a little brief authority, fancy they can only command respect and attention  10
by cutting the flesh of the offender to pieces by the cat-o’-nine-tails. These officers have
been put in the pillory of public opinion, and castigated with a severity becoming their
conduct. If it be true that the worst men make the best soldiers—an axiom more than
questionable—the army is the worst school for morals in the world. Unfortunately,
soldiers are treated as if they possessed neither souls nor sympathies—were living  15
machines merely dressed up to be shot at. This is the error. But a better feeling is
abroad,  and  the  exhibition  to  which  we  allude  has  enlisted  against  flogging  the
indignation of the country, so that the extinction of the evil cannot be remote.’’

20


August 11, 1846


[A Hospital]


PITTSBURGH.—The city of Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania, has seven sectarian newspapers and   25
110 churches, but no hospital for the sick, or asylum for the insane.—Ex.

    —Of course, we in Brooklyn have such a fine Hospital for our needy ones, that we can read the above paragraph very complacently.

30



August 12, 1846


Most Barbarous!


We see in one of the English illustrated papers the testimony on the coroner ’s  35
inquest in the case of White, (the young soldier of the 7th Hussars) mentioned in our
‘‘Public Flogging’’ article of yesterday. If any man can read the portion of it we give—
or any portion of it—without every impulse of his heart invoking an abrogation of the
use of the lash, in any method under the government—we pity that man. Nor let it be
forgotten that at this moment, flogging is plentifully used in our naval service, and that  40
it is administered in our state prisons. If all the secret doings of our vessels of war, and
of the state prisons, were laid open to the light, how many such scenes as the following
lines describe—perhaps more revolting still!—would appal the public heart!
In the testimony in White’s case, one witness says: The man was fastened to a
ladder, which was nailed to the wall of the riding school. His hands were tied, and his  45
back was bare to the loins, with his shirt off and trowsers on. The colonel and the adju-
tant were present, and also Dr. Warren. Critten gave 25 lashes, and then Evans took the

14	  


whip and gave the next 35. Each one gives a flourish in the air with the cat, and raises himself on his toes forward at every stroke. The 25 stripes were given without cessation. They went on until the first 100 lashes had been given, when they changed the whips, by order of the adjutant. [The whips were then brought in, wrapped up in a
5    cloth, and were handed out to the witness; each had nine thongs of whip cord, each thong knotted half way up at intervals of a couple of inches; the handles, about eighteen inches in length, were about the thickness of a man’s thumb. The cords of two of the five cats were stained, hardened and discoloured with blood.] The doctor did not approach any nearer to the deceased during the time he was under punishment. He called for a drink
10    of water, and he had it out of a quart. He called for water two or three times. He did not appeal to the surgeon, nor did the surgeon ask any questions. There was not more than an interval of a minute’s time at the change of the cats. The blood came before the first
25 was completed; nearly between the shoulders. There was a great deal of blood and it ran down the deceased’s trousers. He never uttered a word, but once when the
15    second cats were taken. At the expiration of 100 lashes he cried out ‘‘lower, lower!’’




August 12, 1846
20
Nobody Seems to Think of the Consumers

The whigs are arguing, all ’round, that the new Tariff is going to make ‘things’
excessively cheap. Suppose we take them at their word: every body who buys, (and
25    that is ‘some,’) will be benefitted at least. We are somewhat amazed to see that each
arguer (on both sides) in reference to this Tariff matter, is talking as though the direct
profit of those directly engaged in great manufactures, were the only thing worth
consideration! Have we no consumers? Are not four fifths of the people interested in
getting things cheaply? allowing that the other fifth, (which we do not allow,) would be
30    truly and permanently aided by exorbitant Tariff rates.





August 12, 1846
35


[Templeton]


    Mr. Templeton, (the gent. who leaves out the third stanzas of the ‘Star Spangled Banner,’ because it does not suit his notions,) is getting more contempt than coppers in the north—which locality he at present favors with his high presence. Templeton is
40    a humbug.





August 12, 1846
45


[‘‘Ladies’ Slippers’’]


What do you think, Sir Reader, when we tell you that three ladies’ slippers were
‘pulled off’ and bestowed upon us this morning. We have ’em now—in a glass of water!

  	15




August 13, 1846


[Charlotte Cushman]


What an idea! that of placing Charlotte Cushman second to Mrs. Kean, in the scale
of talent in the dramatic art! Mrs. K. is a pleasing actress: but C. C. is probably the	5
greatest performer on the stage ‘in any hemisphere.’





August 13, 1846

10
Literary Notices


FAMILY  BIBLE; in numbers, each embellished with a fine steel engraving. Geo. Virtue, 26
John street. (Late R. Martin & Co.) N. Y.
Nos. 26, 27, and 28 of this elegant publication are quite equal to the preceding  15
ones, in the beauty of the embellishments, and in typographical merit. We particularly
like the ‘‘Madonna and Child,’’ in No. 28. It is a sweet and most artistic picture! The
bending head of the Virgin, in whose face a holy peace is mirrored—the human Form
in which divinity itself is shrouded—how thrillingly they impress the beholder! The
plates in the other Nos. are ‘‘Samuel before Eli,’’ and a sacred landscape, ‘‘Jezreel, Mt.  20
Gilboa, and Jeth-Shan.’’

RUDIMENTAL LESSONS   IN  MUSIC;  Containing the Primary Instruction requisite for all Beginners  in  the  Art:  whether  Vocal  or  Instrumental.  By  James  F.  Warner; translator of Weber ’s Theory of Musical Composition, &c. Appleton & Co.	25
    Both the connoisseur and the novice, we think, will agree in the necessity and merit of books of this kind. They serve to simplify the beginning of the study of music—which is a great thing. Mr. Warner has evidently a knowledge of his theme; and he has succeeded, (it seems to us) in making the path of the student pretty clear.
We like particularly the following paragraph: ‘‘A proper enunciation of language in  30
music requires, in addition to the observance of the foregoing rules, a vivid conception of
the sentiment which the language is designed to express.—The singer must first himself
have a strong and lively sense of that which he is to impress, by his singing, upon the
minds of those who hear. He must feel strongly every point of his subject. He must
thoroughly imbue himself with every shading of sentiment which was conceived by  35
the author whose words he sings. In this case, his enunciation of language will be
tinged with a manner, at once more finished in point of mechanical execution, and
better adapted to the expression of the particular sentiment intended to be conveyed.’’

MEXICO;  ITS     GEOGRAPHY,  ITS     PEOPLE, AND    ITS    INSTITUTIONS;  &c.—By  Thomas  J.   40
Farnham. H. Long & Brother, 32 Ann st. Publishers. Price, 25 cents.
This book is full of information, respecting Mexico; of course, very opportune at
this time. For the extract about Education in Mexico, in an adjoining column, we are
indebted to it.
45
ILLUSTRATED BOTANY; a monthly publication. No. 5, for July. J. K. Wellman, 116 Nassau street. N. Y.
This No. is embellished with a fine colored print of the Mallow, Tulip, Lily, &c. &c.

16	  


The print is large and clear; and to the lover of the beautiful science of botany, we should think the work recommendable.

LITERARY   EMPORIUM; A Monthly. Same publisher.
5	A literary miscellany; price $1 a year.





August 14, 1846
10


‘‘Philanthropy’’


    One of the most beautiful words which our language has borrowed from the Greek, is Philanthropia; or as we have it, Philanthropy, signifying the ‘‘Love of Man.’’ It has a musical sound; and the very utterance of it begets pleasant thoughts, and
15    inspires prophecies of good. The truth it unfolds, and the lesson it teaches to the thoughtful, when we come to look into its meaning, make, as it were, a golden link in the chain which binds us to the good and the great of the past. They had their inspirations, those old men; they saw more or less clearly, at times, what ought to be among the nations, and caught sight of that sublime truth which recognises the unity
20    of our race. . . . . . . . . . . . This word Philanthropy shows so much as this. A vision, however far off, of the relation existing between all men, as members of one great family; the duty and pleasure of loving and helping, one the other; the dwelling together of the nations in peace, as being of the same flesh and blood and bone, and bound together by the ties of a common brotherhood, and a common interest—these
25    are the thoughts and feelings which must have lived somewhere, in some hearts in the olden time; and which, struggling for utterance, gave birth to this beautiful and musical speech. Plain is it that to some true soul in the far off ages of the Past, these great truths were partially visible—at least a glimpse of them had been caught—else we had not known that noble and brave word, Philanthropy. Let us rejoice in its
30    existence, and seek to give divine second birth in action.





August 14, 1846
35


[The Weather]


    THE   HOT DAYS  are again upon us. The air is dry and feverish, and the glaring sun comes down so spitefully at one! It is not so much the warmth, perhaps, but  the glare, which makes this August atmosphere almost insupportable. . . . . . How lurid
40    the sun was, when he went down last night! We watched him from the Fulton ferry as he hung like a great red ball over the roofs of the Gomorrah on the other side of the river—not as

‘‘With lingering kiss, the drowsy Lord of  Light, Like Antony, when to th’ Egyptian  Queen
45	He  bade farewell, hangs on the cheek of Night
Within her chamber of the deep!’’

  	17


—but like one of the play demons, on the Chatham stage, (in pieces which, to please one pit, represent another, whereof the denizens of the first may perhaps know one day somewhat nearer,) with eyes of fiery crimson glass.

5



August 14, 1846


About Acting


This morning’s News says: ‘‘The London papers have unequivocally asserted that  10
Miss Cushman’s performance of Ellen Tree’s best part is superior to any acting that has
been seen there. Miss Cushman, on Ellen Tree’s own ground, ranks with the critics as a
second Siddons’’. . . . . . Charlotte Cushman is no ‘‘second Siddons’’: she is herself, and
that is far, far better! From what we have seen and heard, (and we consider ourselves
no ‘‘chicken’’ about stage matters,) C. C. is ahead of any player that ever yet trod the  15
stage.  Fanny  Kemble,  Ellen  Tree,  Miss  Phillips,  &c.—Macready,  Kean,  Kemble,
&c.—all had, or have, their merits; all played well, and their acting has afforded many
an intellectual man and woman, a rich treat. But Miss Cushman assuredly bears away
the palm from them all, men and women. She seems to identify herself so completely
with the character she is playing; she loses, for the nonce, every attribute, except those  20
which enter into the making up of what she is to pourtray. And particularly does she
identify herself with the mental peculiarities of the played character. Ah, who that has
seen  her  appaling  Nancy  Sykes,  (the  most  intense  acting  ever  felt  on  the  Park
boards,)—who  that  has  seen  her  Evadne,  in  the  Bridal,  but  acknowledged  the
towering grandeur of her genius! In the simple utterance of her shrieking ‘‘yes! yes!  25
yes!’’ as she swings down to her brother ’s feet, was one of the greatest triumphs of the
histrionic  art,  ever  achieved!  In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye—in  the  utterance  of  a
word—was developed the total revolution of a mighty and guilty mind—from pride,
defiance, anger, and rioting guilt, to an utterly crushed state of fear, remorse, and
conscious vileness! Never shall we forget the surpassing beauty of that performance!  30
. . . . . . We don’t know how others may think; but we consider it a shame that such a
woman as Charlotte Cushman, should ever have been allowed to be superseded by the
fifth rate artistic? trash that comes over to us from the old world! We have seen C. C.
throw more genius into a representation of the Widow Melnotte, in the Lady of Lyons,
than the much-puffed Claude and Pauline, (‘‘from the Theatre Royal,’’ &c. &c.) evinced  35
in their whole most popular and profitable star engagement! Nor was hers the only
case of the like injustice.





August 15, 1846

40

Something We Love to Record


The Boston Journal of the 13th inst. has the following:
45
TRIBUTE  OF  RESPECT.—This morning, while the procession following the remains of the late
Bishop Fenwick was passing through Federal street, the bell of Rev. Dr. Gannett’s church was

18	  


tolling  in  alternation  with  that  of  the  Catholic  church.  We  learn  that  this  was  done  in reciprocation of an unexpected instance of Christian liberality on the part  of the Catholics of Boston, who caused the bell of their church in Franklin street to toll while the funeral procession of the late Rev. Dr. Channing was passing through  our  streets.
5		—Is not this a beautiful incident? Ah, how much might be done in this way to soften the asperities of sectarian prejudices, and put away the hatred and strife which too often darken the intercourse of Christians of different faith. How much might be done by such exhibitions of the charity and loving spirit of the Gospel, to commend religion  to  the  attention  and  reverence  of  the  unbelieving  and  the  wicked.  Such
10    incidents as the above are like oases in the great wilderness of sectarian dissension and opposition; and one can almost think he hears the murmur of the winds among the palm trees—and the voice of the cool waters that bubble up in their shade. Heaven grant that we may have more such, and more—till the whole broad earth shall become like the olden Paradise!
15




August 15, 1846

20


Literary Notices

ANNUAL  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMISSIONER  OF  PATENTS, for the year 1845. Ritchie & Heiss, Washington.
    This is a ponderous book—too ponderous even to be opened by editorial hands. So full of the pith of facts—facts that have an important bearing on almost every
25    question in science, physics, and philosophy—we regret that we have not the leisure to gratify ourself with a careful perusal of its pages.—It is only through publications of this kind that the severe economy of our form of government allows any fostering care to be extended to science; but by publications of this kind the very best aid is given to useful science.
30
THE   EXPEDITION  TO  BORNEO  of H. M. ship Dido, for the suppression of Piracy; with extracts from the journal of James Brooke, Esq., of Sarawack, (now agent for the British government in Borneo.) by Captain the Hon. Henry Keppel, R. N. Harper
& Brothers.
35	Books of this sort are particularly the sort for ‘‘late summer and fall wear ’’—being
of interest, novelty, and moreover of truth. The visit of the Dido to Borneo, and her
services against the pirates, may reasonably be supposed to form a prolific theme for a
readable book,—and Mr. Brooke appears to have jotted down things as they occurred
at the time; which is a commendable merit in such things. The work forms No. 18 of
40    Harpers’ New Miscellany.

GREENWOOD ILLUSTRATED; in a series of Picturesque and Monumental Views, in highly
finished Line Engravings. R. Martin, 26 John st. N. Y.
The ordinary cant phrases used in the criticism (!) of new works, such as ‘‘a
45    beautiful  publication,’’  &c.  fail  in  their  application  when  a  really  elegant  thing
appears—like this superb Greenwood Illustrated. The best recommendation of it, is
itself. . . . . . . The first No. is embellished with an engraving of the Entrance to the

  	19


Cemetery, another of the Keeper ’s Lodge, another of Poet’s Mound, and a fourth of Ocean Hill—all of surpassing truth and fineness.—The peculiarities of that Beautiful Place of Graves are preserved in each of them; the sombre shade of the trees even, and the  heavy  pall,  draping,  as  it  were,  the  atmosphere  there.  We  love  to  see  the
multiplying of such places as Greenwood. We love to see the publication of a work,	5 imbued with a kindred spirit. . . . . . The drawings in Greenwood Illustrated were taken on the spot by James Smillie; and the literary department is by N. Cleaveland.






August 17, 1846

10


Have We Really Got ‘‘Free Trade’’ Now?


    We have no objections to telling the Star frankly that our ideas of free trade  15 involve a far more liberal scope that way, than is permitted in the new Tariff bill. That bill, although its passage is called triumph of the free traders, has merely achieved a moderate reduction on the exorbitant and most abominable tariff of ’42. We hail its success as an earnest of the enlightened state of public opinion, and what that opinion
is going to do in future—and by no means because we consider it to realize the truest  20 wisdom of commercial intercourse. ‘‘We must creep, before we can walk,’’—and it is safe, perhaps, to lop away the old restrictions by degrees, and let the nation come into
its health slowly—a method which cautious physicians pursue toward patients who have long been a-fevered, and whose cases are such that sudden health may bring sharper pangs, (though only temporary ones) than their former ailment.	25
    But do not our whig friends (talking the old talk of ‘reciprocity,’) know that, at the present moment, our Tariff is infinitely higher than the Tariff for Great Britain—the nation with whom nearly all our trade is done? The Star, as a first and foremost example, brings forward the objection that the clocks we export to England ‘‘pay a high duty.’’ We don’t know what our neighbor calls a high duty: they pay a duty of 20  30 per cent, which is all that is required from them under the British tariff—while our
‘‘free-trade’’ tariff makes clocks brought to us pay 30 percent! The argument is against you, Mr. Star!. . . . . . . . . . . . In truth, if the whig prints will let this question stand on
‘reciprocity,’ they had better hold their tongues about McKay’s bill. It is a highly
‘protective’ bill; and by no means as liberal to England, as England is to us.	35





August 17, 1846


The Stage	40


    Our ‘ancient,’ the Park theatre, opens to-night—the principal attraction being Mr. Collins, a representer of Irish characters—he playing McShane in the fine comedy of the Nervous Man. We observe the names of some of the true old ‘stock’ at the Park
again; Mrs. Vernon, in particular, whom we love, also in particular. . . . . . A very  45 considerable portion of the audiences of the Park, (as well as other N. Y. theatres) is made  up  from  denizens  of  Brooklyn.  We  shall  keep  the  run  of  the  city  stage,

20	  


therefore,—on the principle of ‘satisfying all tastes’—which is the true principle for a daily paper.




5
August 18, 1846



Miss Bremer’s Novels


Much has been said, (and a good deal of nonsense withal,) on the subject of
10    novel-reading. ‘‘It is destruction to the strength of the mind,’’ cries one. ‘‘No,’’ rejoins
another, ‘‘it elevates and refines the mind.’’ Actuated by the former belief, parents and
guardians rigorously exclude works of fiction from their houses, and enjoin their
young charges to abstain altogether from the perusal of them. On the other hand, the
disciples of the second doctrine are too apt to be indiscriminate both in their own
15    novel-reading and in their indulgence to others. They open the sluice much wider than
is needful; and in the great rushing of the current come not only health-giving drops,
but mud and slime, and haply poisonous reptiles.
Not a whit less than half the imaginative books published in this country, are
totally unworthy of praise either for their style or their intrinsic merit.—The time is
20    worse than lost that is spent in perusing them. Crude and aimless in design—or rather
without any design at all—they neither depict manners, or life, or natural passion.
Witless are they, and if long reflection discovers some shadow of a moral, it has hardly
enough point to ‘‘vex the dull ear of a drowsy man.’’
And yet there are many novels which can be read, and profit reaped from them.
25    We particularly allude to Miss Bremer ’s novels,* as translated by Mary Howitt. These
charming works, making no pretension to great intellectual merit, are probably, taking
them altogether, the best books the whole range of romance-writing can furnish. The
stories are unusually full of interest, and the reader retains his anxiety to know what is
coming, till the very last page. The affected sentimentality of Bulwer, and the verbose
30    weakness of James, are not the faults of this sweet authoress. If she has, indeed, any
fault, it is, that in one or two of her novels there is a little infusion of transcendentalism;
but we can easily pardon it, for it can do no great harm. The mild virtues—how charity
and forbearance and love are potent in the domestic circle—how each person can be a
kingdom of happiness to himself—how indulgence in stormy passions leads invari-
35    ably to sorrow—and depicting in especial the character of a good, gentle mother—these
are the points upon which Miss Bremer labors like some divine painter, who revels in
his art, and whose work is in a double sense, a work of love. Honor and glory to Peace!
and double glory to all who inculcate Peace, whether among nations, politics, or
families!
40	If we ever have children, the first book after the New Testament, (with reverence
we say it) that shall be made their household companion—a book whose spirit shall be
infused  in  them  as  sun-warmth  is  infused  in  the  earth  in  spring—shall  be  Miss
Bremer ’s  novels.  We  know  nothing  more  likely  to  melt  and  refine  the  human
character—particularly the young character. In the study of the soul-portraits therein
45    delineated—in their motives, actions, and the results of those actions—every youth, of
either sex, will be irresistibly impelled to draw some moral, and make some profitable

  	21


application to his or her own case. How many Petreas, how many young Cornets, how many Saras, there are, among the just-grown human beings around us! How the pure moonlight beauty of Elise attracts the desire of every mother-reader to be likewise beautiful in her nature! And it were not unworthy of attention, that impressions of the true character of a parent, made upon the youthful, come forth in after years, when	5 they are mothers and fathers. . . . . . We recommend every family to have a copy of these novels, as a household treasure.

*THE   NEIGHBORS, THE   HOME,  THE   PRESIDENT’S  DAUGHTERS, NINA,  STRIFE  AND PEACE, LIFE   IN  DELACARDIA, &c., &c.; Translated from the Swedish of FREDERIKA  BREMER. By   10
Mary Howitt. Republished by the Harpers, N. Y. ; and bound in one vol. 8 vo.





August 18, 1846

15
Were Men Made for That?


    Dick says, that since the creation of the world, about fourteen thousand millions of human beings have been slain in the various wars which man has waged against his fellow man!	20





August 18, 1846


Yes You Have!	25


If you trade on borrowed capital, and squander the profits of your business in
‘riotous living,’ and finally fail, you have only to charge the failure to the new Tariff
law, curse the Administration, and set up for a Whig electioneer.
30




August 18, 1846


Quin Was Right!
35

    Quin being asked by a lady why it was reported that there were more women in the world than men, he replied, ‘It is in conformity with the arrangements of nature, madam: we always see more of heaven than of earth.’

40



August 19, 1846


The Independent Treasury


A liberal and gentlemanly whig—a New England whig, withal—acknowledged  45
to us yesterday, that, although in former years he had been one of the ultra advocates

22	  


of the U. S. Bank, and the ‘indignant’ opponents of Gen. Jackson, he now feels glad that the Independent Treasury system has been established, with every prospect of its remaining the custom of the land forever hereafter! The reasons our whig friend gave, were the reasons of truth—the reasons advanced by Mr. Van Buren, and, later, by the
5    democrats in Congress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We join the Boston Post in its expecta- tion that the principal good to result from this bill, will be from its fundamental principle that the U. S. moneys shall be kept strictly for public purposes; that is, instead of being allowed to go into banks, one or many, and there used as a basis of discount to any portion of the community, that it shall be retained by the agents of the government
10    and at all times be ready for the wants of the nation. This idea was a favorite one with Jefferson. As early as 1803, and in a letter to Mr. Gallatin, while enjoying the so much vaunted benefit of a national bank, he asks the Secretary of the Treasury whether he could not then ‘‘make a beginning towards an independent use of our own moneys.’’
The evils of the old system of allowing the public money to be loaned, are many
15    and evident. In the future, as it has been, there will be times when large amounts of the
public funds, for short periods, may be collected at particular points; and if the banks
were allowed to use them, they would make the most of them, and thus increase the
natural obstructions of trade. Heretofore this has had a powerful agency in stimulating
enterprise into rashness, and thus making our commercial revulsions more severe than
20    otherwise they would have been. This has been frankly admitted by those who favored
the loan system; but was supposed to be compensated by the facility with which the
public funds could be transferred, through the agencies of banks, from one point to
another. But this argument has lost its force. It is an obsolete idea that a national bank is
necessary to regulate exchanges; and during the time the Independent Treasury was in
25    operation the necessary transfers were made with perfect safety and convenience. The
Independent Treasury system is pre-eminently an equal system, for it favors no classes:
it is a just system, for what can be more proper than that the public funds should be
kept for public purposes? it is a safe system, for however disastrous commercial
revulsions in future may be, however wide may be a suspension of specie payments,
30    the government moneys will be free from them. And it is eminently a constitutional
system. In adopting it, congress have given effect to the public will, and proved true to
the principles of democracy.




35
August 19, 1846



Female Labor


The N. Y. News intimates that the sewing girls of that city are about holding a
40    mass meeting for the purpose of showing the old clo’ merchants that they have some
‘‘independence’’ left, and that they will not be dealt with so shamefully for the future.
All kinds of extortion and low meannesses are practised towards these workwomen by
the clothiers. Old gossips may prate about virtue and morality, but if any one will
watch the movements of these patient and gentle N. Y. sewing girls from day to day,
45    and tell why they prefer the crust of bread and pallet of straw to silks and satins,
luxury and fine living, they will be wise indeed. No wonder the pest houses and
brothels in that city are increasing in number every day: no wonder that so many are

  	23


seeking refuge from poverty and distress in those places, while such unrighteous treatment is dealt out to them. Something should be done, and done quickly, to remedy the evil.

5




August 19, 1846


City Intelligence
Bedford	10


    There is no more rapidly improving portion of this city than in the 9th ward, in the  vicinity of Bedford. Upon Clinton, Fulton, Clason and other streets thereabout, numerous dwellings of the most commodious style are in a state of rapid progress. These mansions are being erected by many of our wealthy and flourishing citizens,  15 who are determined to escape from the closeness of city life.—As eligible lots are procurable in that portion of our city at a very cheap rate, the owners take plenty of breathing space for their residences, and the enjoyments of semi-rural life are attain- able at a comparatively low rate. When this section of the city becomes occupied it will
be the most attractive part of Brooklyn. Clinton avenue, from Myrtle to the rail road,  20 already  presents  one  of  the  most  agreeable  prospects  it  is  possible  to  conceive. Combining as it does the conveniences of a city with all the advantages of country life,
so  enthusiastically  sought  for  by  those  who  are  doomed  to  the  noise,  dirt  and confusion of a city, we do not wonder at the rush which is made to obtain houses there
by all whose business will permit them to live at a little distance. In a short time, from  25 present  appearances,  all  the  neighboring  streets  will  be  as  thickly  studded  with beautiful mansions as Clinton avenue.
    We yesterday took a walk all through this portion of the city and found surveyors marking  out  locations  for  houses  which  are  destined  to  go  up  forthwith;  recent purchasers with their eyes gloating in anticipation over their newly acquired property;  30 many splendid mansions in process of being finished; and every thing betokening
an advancing stage of prosperity and rural felicity. If there be anything which really causes a man to be envious, it is the view of such a prospect. What an agreeable picture of domestic life is it to see a pretty wife upon the piazza, anxiously peering at intervals
down the avenue in expectancy of the evening return of her husband, while the  35 children, accompanied by the spaniel, are gambolling about in front, ready to run and hasten the near approach of their father; while as you pass, your eye unconsciously peers in at the basement window and takes a rapid inventory of neatly arranged furniture, and a well spread board, rejoicing in all the glories of pure white china and spotless table linen. These are the incidents which make life rationally agreeable; and  40 these  we  witnessed  in  abundance  on  our  return.  Then  in  the  evening  there  are delightful reunions among the neighbors, who while away the time in music and various other social enjoyments. People out there do not, as in the dense and selfish city, take delight in alleging that they are unacquainted with their next door neighbor!
It is a comparatively new country, and neighbors feel the necessity and consequent  45
benefit of rendering to each other all the agremens of sociality. Commend us, therefore,
to the fast growing rural portions of Brooklyn.

24	  




August 20, 1846



Wyatt’s Execution, and Dying Speech


5		The law of this state forbids public executions; but it cannot forbid newspapers from publishing accounts of the executions—which amounts to the same thing—only
‘a great deal more so.’ Indeed the detailed narratives of hanging, which newspapers give, circulate more widely, and are dwelt on more elaborately: the moral effect of a hanging  spectacle  is  therefore  just  as  much  diffused  by  print,  as  though  it  were
10    presented actually to the eyes of people. . . . . . . . . . . . We, too, must be in the fashion, and give the latest execution—that of Wyatt, which took place last Monday, 17th. When brought to the scaffold, the criminal fainted, but soon recovered, and was led to a chair under the halter, and seated. He again swooned. At a quarter before three, the Sheriff adjusted the rope, when Wyatt said, in substance: ‘‘Mr. Sheriff, I want to say a
15    few words before I die. I have seen much, and have experienced much in this world, but it will soon be over. I respect you, and I respect your family: I hope the community will not blame my counsel. They have done all they could for me, and I hope the people will not censure them. When Judge Sisson said a clergyman told him about the Vicksburg affair, I said then what I say now—a Minister of the Gospel can tell what is
20    not true—I never killed a man in Ohio, and I now say it on the word of a dying man: I have lived like a man, and I shall die like a man. I hope all present and the community will have compassion and forget me; but I am not afraid to die. I wish you would place the rope so that it will not give me pain. I want to say one thing more. It is not calculated to benefit a man to go to the State Prison, and be treated as I have been.
25    Good-bye, Mr. Sheriff! good-bye, Mr. Hopping! Fare you all well!’’
—And then the proper officer cut the rope, and the platform fell, and the man
fought the air a while——and then all was still: for the ‘great moral lesson’ had
been achieved.

30


August 20, 1846
Dramatics; and the True Secret of Acting
35
    The philosophy of acting resides entirely in the feelings and passions—to touch them, wake them, and calm them. No man can be a good actor without this power—and the more he has it, the greater he is upon the stage. This is stating the thing in its simplest form. . . . . . . . . . . . Now there are two ways of exercising such a sway over
40    the passions of an audience—the usual way, which is boisterous, stormy, physical, and repugnant to truth and taste; and another way, that actors rarely condescend to take, which consists in an invariable adherence to Nature, and is entirely mental, and works from within to the outward, instead of being altogether outward. The mental style was Macready’s in his best days; he touched the heart, the soul, the feelings, the inner
45    blood and nerves of his audience. The ordinary actor struts and rants away, and his furious declamation begets a kind of reciprocal excitement among those who hear him, it is true—but there is as much difference between it and the result produced by the true actor, as between mind and body.

  	25


    Though we never acted on the stage, we know well enough, from the analogy of things, that the best way in the world to represent grief, remorse, love, or any given passion, is to feel them at the time, and throw the feeling as far as possible into word and act. This is a rare art, we admit; but no man or woman can be really great on the stage who has it not. The strange and subtle sympathy which runs like an electric chain	5 through human hearts collected together, responds only to the touch of the true fire.
We have known the time when an actual awe and dread crept over a large body assembled in the theatre, when Macready merely appeared, walking down the stage, a king. He was a king—not because he had a tinsel gilded crown, and the counterfeit robe, but because he then dilated his heart with the attributes of majesty, and they  10 looked forth from his eyes, and appeared in his walk. Such a power was worth a thousand vociferous plaudits for giving words of anger or defiance in tones to split the very roof! Mrs. Siddons, in characters where a moving passion was maternal grief, wept hot scalding real tears! Kean’s eyes, in Richard, used to burn almost lurid with hate and wicked wishes! . . . . . . . . . . . . What agitation caused in a spectator ’s mind  15 merely by loud lungs, can equal in intensity the result of one little touch of real feeling
of this kind? Sock and Buskin! let us whisper in your ear (if any one of you reads this paragraph) the whole secret of penetrating your hearers’ hearts: throw into your own identity (due labor and perseverance will give you the art of doing so at will) the character you are to represent. This, under the guidance of discretion and good taste, is  20 all that is necessary to make the best of performers. Discard the assistance of mere physical applications. You have hammered away long enough at the ear—condescend,
at last, to affect the heart.
—We went over last evening (19th) to the Park theatre, to see how they were
getting along—the old management and most of the old stock company, in a new  25
commencement. The piece was the Nervous Man; and the best played part in it, by far,
was Mr. Barrett’s Mr. Aspen. It was indeed a treat to see such a bit of art as that—true
to nature, not over-done, point-device in every thing. Mr. Collins (the star) has an
agreeable  way  with  him,  and  a  person  may  well  sit  and  take  pleasure  from  his
performance; but there are many players in the stock cos. in New York, quite as well as  30
he. Mrs. Vernon, (Lady Leech) of course, did what she had to do, to admiration! She is
not surpassed by any actress on the boards in her line; and is one of the public’s (and
our) dear old favorites. . . . . . The house was well filled last night, and we should
think the management was putting money in its purse.
35




August 20, 1846


Literary Notices
40

Littell’s LIVING   AGE,  Nos. 117 and 118. New York, Wm. Taylor, 2 Astor House.
This is indeed an advanced ‘Age’; we have in it, selections from all the current
literature of Great Britain, in weekly Nos., for 12 1⁄2    cents each! For instance No. 117
contains the Life and Correspondence of David Hume, from the Quarterly—Historical
Pictures of the Middle Ages, from the Athenæum—a Coming Change in Europe, from  45
the Times—Life and Adventures of Miss Robinson Crusoe, from Punch—and a long
string of capital things, also, selected with taste, and printed in clear good style. Most
of the best articles from abroad are put into the Living Age.

26	  


COLUMBIAN   MAGAZINE, for September. Israel Post, 140 Nassau st. N. Y.
We like the Columbian, particularly for one thing. It gives us ‘‘semi-occasionally,’’
a dash of Americanism—an American picture, and a truly American narrative or
romance. The Sept. number, now has a very handsome mezzotint of the Charge of
5    Capt.  May,  at  the  battle  of  Resaca  de  la  Palma.—There  goes  the  helter  skelter
Capt., with his thirty-inch beard, and after him press his gallant corps! Moreover, we
like the print, because it does not descend to the poor wit, (like some other pictures we
have seen of late,) of making the Mexicans perfect scarecrows, or frightened into
agues. . . . . . . . . . . . . The Columbian for September has a fine literary melange.
10
ILLUSTRATED  BOTANY,  for August. J. K. Wellman, 118 Nassau st., N. Y.
The study of Botany is one which we would recommend to every youth, of either
sex. It is well calculated to develope a refinement, and a sense of beauty—perhaps
more  calculated  to  do  this,  than  any  other  study.  To  take  up  the  simplest
15    flower—examine it, its leaves, seeds, curious formation and beautiful colors—how
well may the intelligent mind be impressed thereby, with the wisdom and vastness of
God! For there is that in the make of a flower which involves those qualities.

YOUNG   PEOPLE’S   MAGAZINE, for August. Wellman, N. York.
20	A monthly magazine for youth, edited by Seba Smith, a writer of reputation. Price
$1 a year.





25
August 21, 1846



‘Learning’ &c.


The morning papers publish, with huge commendations, the following from a
30    New Haven paper of current date:

    ‘‘Among the graduates of Yale yesterday, was one whose history presents one  of those remarkable instances of perseverance under great discouragement which are now and then met with at every College, though very rarely attended by circumstances of such striking interest as the present. The individual referred to entered college three years ago, and is said to have made
35    his way to it, from a distance of above one hundred miles, on foot, and to have entered on his collegiate course with the sum of just three dollars on hand! He has by his unaided efforts sus- tained himself to the end of that course, and came off yesterday with distinguished honors.—But what is extraordinary in this case is, that he has also found time (while many of his more favored comrades have been wasting their precious hours in city amusements and college-inanities,) for
40    cultivating his favorite branch of Electricity, and pushing his mathematical studies beyond the limits of the prescribed college course. As evidence of his promise in science, it may be stated that an elaborate paper on the law of electrical conduction in metals was published by him in the March number of Dr. Sillimau’s Journal of Science, which for experimental, mathematical and logical merit, is surpassed by nothing in that department of science, which has ever appeared in
45    that work, and which has already elicited from Sir Michael Faraday, the prince of philosophers in Electricity, a compliment of which either of our eminent countrymen, Prof. Morse or Dr. Henry, might well be proud.’’

  	27


    —We have, in our day, so seen the blighting effects of this ‘devotion to learning’—to the forgetfulness of every thing else, of the laws of physical health, and the claims which the ordinary things of life have upon a man—that we prefer rather to rebuke such an example as the above, than to commend it. The public, and parents, are
altogether too willing to admire and push on unusual intellectual developement in	5 children,  and  in  young  men.—We  doubt  whether  good  ever  results  from  such developement, however. It is a sign of disease, sometimes both mental and physical; and instead of adding fuel to the flames, it would be far better to withdraw it. . . . . . Only a few years since, a friend of ours had a fine boy of fourteen, in whose precocity
he took great pride. He restrained him from the companionship of other boys—urged  10 on his studies, and developed his natural refinement and polish to a prodigious extent. The lad was an accomplished musician: he played on the flute and piano, in a style that delighted even the best artists. He learned several languages, and all the ‘sciences.’ He was a rare and most spiritual creature! (The glow of his large blue eyes is before us now.) But alas! though he grew almost to man’s estate, Nature, whose laws were  15 violated, refused to sustain the draughts made upon her weakened energy. He died a year ago, at the age of twenty. ‘The sword was too bright for the scabbard.’ He was one
of the numerous victims to the mistaken gratification which parents and friends take in the ‘encouragement of young genius.’. . . . . . Now, although there are perhaps not so many early deaths, which can be traced directly to what we must call a folly of this sort,  20 there are innumerable instances of middle and after life being made miserable by too great and close an application to book studies. You meet such instances every day. You
see the promise of them in the sunken chests, and meagre forms, and premature eye-glasses of students—in the pallid cheeks of so many of our young men, and their wilted look, from top to toe.	25
    Besides, it is too often forgotten that there is a higher study than the mere study of books—the study of LIFE. In that great Volume, open to all—in its infinite pages, so full of the seeds of every moral and meaning—at its pictured lessons, which he who knows not is a babe in knowledge, whatever he may be in ‘science’—over the treasures
of  experience,  so  capable  of  conveying  a  profitable  hint  to  any  man,  under  any  30 circumstances—how few of us after all, are in the habit of looking with that earnest attention so profound a source of instruction rightly demands! The greatest services done to humanity have not been done by men of mere learning; though far be it from us
to decry the noble praise due that class—whose meed of reward in the world is scant enough. But, as a class, they miss the true aim of even an intellectual life. That aim  35 involves a wise consideration of all the claims which Life has upon a man, and not the hiding of all the rest by the unnatural expansion and nearness of one.





August 21, 1846

40

[Smoking in the Omnibus]


    The Gazette and Times insists that the man that smokes in the omnibus, and on the ladies’ cabin side of the Fulton ferry boats, is its ‘thunder.’ We don’t care who the  45 dickens owns him, if he will just keep on the New York side.
    
28	  




August 21, 1846


[An ‘‘Axe-i dent’’]


Carelessly knocking a man’s eye out with a broken axe may be termed a bad
5    axe-i dent.





August 21, 1846
10



City Intelligence

The Public Schools of Brooklyn, and of the County

To say that any thing relating intimately to our Public Schools, is a matter of high
15    importance, would be saying one of those common place truths which no man could deny. We have lately met with the report of the County Superintendent, Samuel E. Johnson, made just previous to his retirement from that office, some months since; and it strikes us as containing matter well worth an attentive perusal, in this connection.
Mr. Johnson says: ‘‘I take advantage of this, the last report I shall have the honor to
20    present—to suggest a few ideas in regard to school matters in this county—and first, in reference to the city of Brooklyn. The prosperity of the schools in that city would be, in my opinion, greatly promoted, were there a school officer whose whole time could be devoted to their supervision. The number of children annually taught therein, the
amount of money expended in and about them, seem to require it. The Board of
25    Education of that city deserve great credit for the improvement which the schools have exhibited in every respect since its organization; but the Board, composed as it is of thirty-two members, is too large a body for each one to feel a sufficient share of responsibility.  Its  size  prevents  its  acting  as  efficiently  as  is  desirable.  Could  an
alteration of the law be effected, by which the Secretary of the Board should be City
30    Superintendent, and receive a salary sufficient to allow his whole time being devoted to the Public Schools of the city, I can conceive of nothing more conducive to the interests of the rising generation. . . . . . . . . . . . Second, in reference to the county generally, the rapid increase of population in this county has called for an increase in
the number of districts. One new one has been organized since my last report, and
35    others are in contemplation. A great desire on the part of many inhabitants of this county has been expressed, for a general law authorizing the inhabitants of each town to determine by vote at the annual town meetings, whether their schools shall be district or free schools. This desire has arisen in a great measure from the greatly
increased population of several of the towns, and the expense of carrying out the
40    present provision of the law in relation to rate bills. With one or two exceptions, that part of the law is in this county, a dead letter. The influence of the free school system of Brooklyn and Williamsburgh has rapidly extended, and has had much effect in strengthening the desire I have above alluded to. The practical manner in which poor
children are generally taught in this county, is for the teacher to receive so much per
45    quarter for those who can pay—he agreeing to teach all the poor children, without pay. . . . . . . . . . . . In closing this report, I cannot forego the pleasure of bearing my testimony to the very general excellence of the teachers of this county. Suggestions for the improvement of the schools have been cheerfully carried into effect, and increased
zeal in the discharge of their duties has been generally manifested.’’

  	29




August 22, 1846


Water


Brooklyn is nearly as large as Boston: in a few years it will be larger. But Boston is
‘going to go’ ahead of Brooklyn in one respect—and that is in a supply of good water.	5
They have made a commencement with the ‘Long Pond Aqueduct,’ which is to furnish
that supply. About seven years have been required to bring the Bostonians to an
ultimate decision—it being that length of time ago, since the matter was broached. It
will require three years more at least to finish the aqueduct and ‘fixins.’ This will make
the time ten years: ergo, if Brooklyn wants to have good water in 1856, to supply its  10
hundred and ten thousand inhabitants, it had better make a commencement right off.





August 22, 1846

15
Bad News


The sympathies of the whole land, young and old, will surely be with the gallant
Capt. Walker, who by the telegraphic news of this morning is reported as dangerously
ill at Matamoras. The republic has no son who has done and dared more for her, ac-  20
cording to his opportunities, than young W. And the moral effect of such an example
as his, is most commendable. We think it commendable none the less, because it is
developed in the arena of war: for though we love peace, and hate war, the fact of a
man’s devotion to the Native Land—of his dauntless risking body and life in her
service—throws into the shade all except his high emprise itself. . . . . . The news of  25
Capt. Walker ’s illness, we repeat, will be considered public bad news; and all will
watch eagerly for something more favorable about him.





August 22, 1846

30

A Specimen


One of our N. Y. contemporaries mentions the fact that a merchant in that city
‘‘who is wealthy and doing a good business, recently discharged three of his clerks  35
under the excuse of hard times, and then went over to Brooklyn and bought three
pews in a church for $2400.’’ The case of this merchant might find many a duplicate,
resembling it in a farther or nearer degree, we fancy.

40



August 24, 1846


The Government Finances


    At this day, it is unnecessary to spend much time upon a labored argument to  45 prove the inutility and evils of a national bank. We are all agreed that that vexed question is not to be troubled any more—at least as far as the Whigs profess any opinion on the subject. No public man, at this time, dare avow his advocacy of a Great Bank. He might safely date his political death, were he to do so, from that very hour.
    
30	  


Indeed the people have all learned a wholesome lesson of the results of fostering paper money institutions. They are as flimsy to aid us, in our hour of trial, as the intrinsic worth of the substance they palm off for money. Let the name and influence of the government—the  embodied  people—never  be  polluted  and  distorted  into  any
5    identification with them. Let them stand upon their own merits—those that are honest and wise, (whatever of such there be) to prosper—those that are weak and vile to meet sooner or later their destruction. Let the people’s choice—their selected servants—be trusted with the control of the nation’s moneys, under proper checks and cautions and securities. We can at least leave as much to them as to bank officers, cashiers, and
10   brokers. Or, if they do run away with what belongs to us, we will possess the satisfaction of knowing where our money goes, and that we have no body to blame but ourselves. That is something.




15
August 24, 1846



[The ‘‘Star’’ and ‘‘Advertiser’’]


In the paucity of themes of importance this morning, we may be excused for
20    turning our attention to trifles. Ergo, we may devote a little space to the whig organs of
Brooklyn. It is the pleasant luck of the democratic party of Brooklyn, to have two
newspaper ‘opponents’ whose peculiar mode of enmity does the said party more good
than ever it could derive from a dozen of the most eloquent and ingenious advocates
of its own, in the world!
25	Sidney Smith, in one of his inimitable essays, mentions that it is the fate of certain
trains of argument to be ‘transmogrified’ pretty much in the same way as fashions of
dress. As, in respect to the latter, you will, in visiting an obscure town, see some very
worthy people who complacently shine out upon you, in all the splendor of what to
them is the current mode, and the very latest and dashiest—but which was really put
30    aside, seasons ago, with other antiquated trumpery, by people of ‘select’ taste;—so
there are positions, and arguments, and reasons, and doctrines—started perhaps on
high authority, but which, not having the stamina of truth, are as ephemeral as the
bend of a bonnet—that having been exploded and answered in the high circles where
they first gained a hearing, even their authors consider them quietly inurned; and it is
35    only when you visit some distant place, and hear those who have just been reached by
the subsiding waves, that you find the mistake. You hear, then, persons who reiterate
the fallacies and dogmas of half a generation before—who sing a song, the reverbera-
tions of which have long died out in the spot where it was originally raised. How
ridiculous, not to say painful, are such spectacles! As if the world had stood still during
40    the past thirty, or fifty, or eighty years! . . . . . . . . . . . . Our worthy contemporary the
L. I. Star, honoring with its notice some poor remarks of ours on the new Treasury law,
advances the novel and startling accusation against the law, of making ‘‘one money
for the government, and another for the people’’! This frightfully original argument,
with another, that ‘‘Banking—the issuing of paper money, and loaning it—is a vastly
45    profitable business,’’ turn the point at issue, into such an entirely new and previously
unheard-of channel, that we may well be excused if we ask for a few days’ reflection,
before we venture to grapple with them. . . . . . . . . In the meantime, in rejoinder to our

  	31


neighbor ’s inconsistent articles on the tariff, we will just stick a pin through him on one point, and let him buzz on the wall, till we get leisure to take him off again. Does our fellow-print stand by its oft-repeated and deliberately affirmed notion, that ‘‘Just so far as any foreign nation will allow our productions to enter freely into her ports, just so
far would a proper reciprocity incline us to do likewise respecting that nation; the	5 basis of all our treaties is this principle’’? If there is any meaning intended to such assertion as this, let the Star shut up its mouth about McKay’s Tariff bill. That bill don’t begin to be as liberal to the productions of Great Britain, (with whom we do most of
our trade,) as the British tariff is to what goes from the United States thither.
The other of this whig couple, the Advertiser, gets on swimmingly with such items  10
of overpowering wit as ‘‘the Eagle man has been to the Park theatre, and fallen in love
with an actress,’’ &c. &c. Poor little ‘organ’! in whom nature has been indulgent to one
of her nastiest, most idiotic productions. Contempt, that ‘pierces the shell of a tortoise,’
cannot pierce the triple brass of thy ineffable obtuseness.
15




August 25, 1846


The Drama
20

    One of the N. Y. papers openly acknowledges, (in amount) that the ‘shocking state’ of acting and the drama, at the Park theatre, consists in the manager ’s treatment of the editor of said print! This is a very pretty admission, indeed. It is not only unfair—but, what is worse, it is silly. It is not fair; because Mr. Simpson, and the old
attaches at the Park, are proverbially bland in their personal demeanor. It is silly,  25 because the intrinsic merit or demerit of a play or a player has no more to do with the manager ’s admission of ‘dead heads,’ than with the colors of the lobby carpet.
    A silly fib, has been started on its ‘rounds’ in the papers—that Charlotte Cushman is unable to get an engagement in London—and that the manager who first engaged
her lost money by paying her £30 a week. This is ridiculous! C. C. is undeniably the  30 greatest  actress  on  the  stage—and  acknowledged  so  in  London. . . . . .  The  News speaking of Mary Taylor, trusts that ‘‘the day is not far distant when it shall see her the leading actress at the leading theatre in the Union.’’ With such criticism as this, is it strange that the intelligent people of N. Y. pay no attention to newspaper theatrical notices?	35





August 26, 1846


Facts for Working Folk	40


    It appears from unquestioned statistics laid before Congress during the late ten- dency of public attention to the respective claims of as low duties as possible, against duties  high  enough  to  ‘protect’  certain  manufactures  against  any  competition—it appears that besides the thirty millions a year, paid into the National Treasury by us  45 consumers, we actually pay other sixty millions, to the ‘protected’ classes.—‘‘This estimate is based upon the position that the duty is added to the price of the import,
    
32	  


and also of its domestic rival.’’ And the bulk of all this infamous extortion comes, too, out of the pockets of the working people. Under the tariff of ’42 (that precious ark of safety, the loss of which is to make our noble American mechanics ‘‘winter in the poor house,’’) every blacksmith has to pay, more than he would otherwise have paid, 52 per
5    cent on his hammers—every carpenter has to pay 42 more on his;—and their wives have to pay 75 per cent. more on their common ingrain carpets, (while the rich purchaser of Wilton pays but 28,)—and from 75 to 125 per cent more on common cotton goods!—while the fine cottons worn by the rich pay but 30! For his common glass tumblers the ‘common’ man has to pay 139 per cent! while the plate glass of the
10    nabob is let off with a moderate 30 per cent! . . . . . . . . . . . . A pretty ‘‘ruin,’’ is it not, which will stick a lancet into this bloated tariff, existing on gains from the poor—and let down to decent proportions, its most wicked plethora?
    We  allow  every  thing  in  the  world  to  the  ‘throwing  out  of  employment’  of whoever may be so affected by the difference between the tariffs of ’42 and ’46, as to
15    lose employment—and yet we say that no man can look at the facts, and reason by reason and analogy, without coming to the irresistible conclusion that the people, the forty-nine out of fifty, will gain immeasurably by the new and more liberal system. And if the one out of fifty, with his other ones out of other fifties, be able to make the greatest splutter yet, that very tempest only proves how pampering and unequal is the
20    nature  of  the  ‘protective’  system—and  how  it  has  strengthened  the  tongues  and pockets of the fraction, at the expense of a class forty-nine times as numerous as they.




25    August 26, 1846
More about the ‘Operations of the British, in India’

We must give, from time to time, as we fall in with them, these nice little items
30    which relate to what the Rev. Mr. Morrison, (a minister of peace,) tells our Brooklyn
folk, is ‘‘a means adopted by God to spread Christianity in India.’’ This morning we
find that the Advocate of Peace for August, edited by Elihu Burrit, contains a letter
published in the Stamford Mercury (England) from a private in the victorious army,
John Lum, dated the 8th of March, giving some account of the battles last December, on
35    the  banks  of  the  Sutlej.—Having  spoken  of  the  battle  of  the  20th,  the  writer
adds:—‘‘On the succeeding morning, we commenced hanging and shooting all the prisoners,
which dreadful work occupied us nearly the whole of the day’’!!




40
August 26, 1846



[The Brooklyn ‘‘Advertiser’’]


One difference between the two whig organs in Brooklyn is that the Star knows
45    when it is demolished, on any given point, and holds its tongue; while the Advertiser, in
the  tightest  pinchings  of  the  forceps  which  have  been  put  to  it,  flaunts  on  as

  	33


complacently as though its own friends were not blushing for it; too dull to see what other people see, that the more it says, the more harm it does to its own cause. Yesterday’s Adv. for instance ‘‘writes down’’ itself, Dogberry fashion,—in a reply to our invincible ‘Figures cannot Fib,’ of the day before—the amt. of said reply being an
allegation that the agricultural products of this country have no market in England,	5 and therefore it is in the interest of the consuming farmers to pay the atrocious tax of eighty millions of dollars to the American makers of protected articles, in order to have
a ‘home market’ for the said farmers’ produce!! To the principle of the first part of the allegation, we have no answer at all to make: and heartily hope that not only the Adv.
but some whig journal of character and influence, would reiterate it every day. As to  10 the other item, which the Adv. fortifies by an assumed report that only ‘‘thirty seven thousand and odd barrels of flour ’’ were sent to England from this country last year, nothing more is needed to batter it altogether in the dust, than the simple fact, by the
last steamer that in one day, just before the starting of the steamer, there were passed through the port of Liverpool, from the U. S. and in U. S. vessels, 24,813 barrels of flour,  15
6000 bushels of corn, and the same quantity of bushels of wheat!
—Then, as to the Adv. man ‘‘reading a newspaper,’’—this of ours—and being
‘‘struck down’’ by the ‘‘leader on the Tariff’’—we think it not at all improbable. But
that he   ‘‘lost his senses’’ we consider a moral impossibility.
20




August 26, 1846


Literary Notices
25

THE   AMERICAN   REVIEW; a Whig journal of Politics, Literature, and Science. August,
1846. G. H. Colton, 118 Nassau st. N. Y.
We give on our first Page a magnificent account of our great Mexican battles, from
the ‘Army of Occupation,’ in the August no. of this review. It is probably from the pen
of Mr. Headley, the dashy writer of Napoleon and his Marshals. Whoever is the writer  30
though, it is disgraceful to him as a man and an American that he should lead and
follow the description of those brilliant battles by such remarks as do lead and follow
them. The American is intended, we believe, as an offset to the Democratic Review. It
can  never  take  so  noble  a  scope  as  the  latter,  however;  for  democracy  is  closely
identified with a well developed literature—and it has always been the highest pride  35
of the best writers to advance the claims of liberal doctrines in government.

Payne’s ILLUSTRATED  LONDON;  a Series of Views of the British Metropolis and its
Environs, with historical and descriptive letter-press. New York agent, C. Muller,
118 Nassau st.	40
This book is to be finished in about twenty numbers, and each number has ten
steel engravings.—We learn from its beginning, the somewhat singular fact, that never,
in the history of England, were building operations in fuller activity than at present in
London,  or  greater  beauty  of  design  displayed.  [Quotation  omitted—10 1⁄3      ll.]  To
present a finished pictorial and descriptive acct. of these new, as well as the old ‘lions’  45
of London, appears to be the object of this tastily got-up work: Also, to furnish a

34	  


consecutive history of the Great City, its statistics, population, commerce, &c. The frontispieces, ‘St. Paul’s from the River,’ and the ‘Royal Exchange,’ are unusually elegant specimens of steel engraving.

5    Littell’s LIVING   AGE:  No. 119. N. Y., Wm. Taylor, 2 Astor House.
This no. of the Age contains the usual excellent selection from the foreign, with a
dash of the home, periodicals.



10

August 26, 1846
We Must Laugh at This, Though We Respect Mr. Clay!

15		A hatter in Philadelphia made a hat for Henry Clay, a few days since, and, in a letter accompanying the gift, states that he sends the hat ‘‘to guard that head which has so long and nobly advocated the protection of American manufactures;’’ and Mr. Clay replies, among other pretty things, that ‘‘it fits my head as exactly as if it had been used instead of the customary block in making the hat.’’
20




August 26, 1846

25


[‘‘Editorial Dinner’’]

When  is  that  editorial  dinner  to  come  off?  We  are  getting  hungry.—Brooklyn
Advertiser.
—The old joke is not a bad one about the corporal’s wife saying to the general’s
lady,—‘‘We officers’ wives ought to dine by ourselves.’’
30




August 27, 1846

35


A Reminiscence

    To-day is the anniversary of the Battle of Long Island—the saddest fight, for us, that occurred during the long contest our fathers held for their national independence. Seventy years ago to-day, Washington stood on our Island shores, and wrung his hands, while tears of the bitterest anguish gathered on his cheeks—sighs of agitated
40    passion which he is said never to have given way to, on any other occasion, before or afterward! He found the ‘Maryland regiment,’ composed of young men—the flower of some of the finest families in the South—cut to atoms in that disastrous slaughter! He found the first battle where he commanded in person, going against him—and at night three thousand of the troops Congress had entrusted to his care, either lifeless as the
45    cold ground on which they lay, or prisoners in the hands of an enemy whose barbarous treatment of them, he well knew, would be little preferable to death! No wonder that, in that dreary hour, the soul of One elsetime as serene as a god’s, felt sick within him. No wonder that his lips shed words of agony, bitter as blood-drops from a wounded heart. Ah, we who live in the ease and profit and security of the present, can but poorly

  	35


realize such a day as the 27th of August, 1776! when the families of America, north and south, after having yielded up their best and bravest to repel an insolent and hireling army of invaders, had each to mourn the loss of either some member, or some near relative or friend.
    And yet—towering high above the clouds and darkness of that unhappy time—in	5 a method of courage and endurance which puts to scorn the vaunted things of Greek and  Latin story—appear the majestic calmness, even then, of Congress and of that Commander on whom the hopes of Congress rested. While the very heavens were weeping  over  the  downfall  of  Freedom’s  hope,*  Washington  set  himself  about overcoming obstacles that would have appaled a common hero—and achieved that  10 masterpiece of a retreat, which has hardly a parallel in the records of war;—extricating
his troops from the very clutches of a conquering enemy—from a net which seemed to enfold them as securely as ever bird was held in fowler ’s snare. Nor could the Roman Senate, when Rome was most imperial, have rejected with haughtier disdain the terms
of its weakest victim, than the American Congress, through its commissioners, rejected  15
the terms of Howe, after the battle of Long Island—when the British laughed to scorn
the bare possibility of ‘rebellion’ sustaining itself through the summer!
—Men of western Long Island! are you apt enough to keep the memory of these
things—with which the very soil we daily tread is so closely identified? And shall we
not reserve at least one spot as a visible token of that sad and yet most glorious Day for  20
America, and for human freedom?

    *For two days after the battle of Long Island, it rained almost incessantly—a chilly, murky storm.
25




August 27, 1846


More Hottentot Ignorance!
30

    The Tribune cannot understand, and asks us to tell it, how many L. I. eels it can get for  a shilling. Every body that ‘knows eels’ at all (which not to know argues one a noodle,) is well enough aware that from Shewango neck to Hog inlet, twelve and a half cents is equivalent to a mess of that savory edible. . . . . . . . . . . . . We call upon both the whig print and the Morning News to put their readers right on this important subject.  35





August 27, 1846


[A Slur on American Women]	40


    The English Advertiser—after finding themes for its filthy abuse in the bravest soldiers of this country, in our dead and living Presidents, and so on—has at last taken to blackguarding the American women. It cannot understand why the females of this
country should decline being menials in the kitchen, (subject to all the barbs which that  45 condition  must  hourly  bring  to  them.)—and  ridicules  what  it  calls  their  ‘‘silly prejudices’’  against  becoming  ‘‘servants,  (or,  if  they  prefer  the  title  ‘helps’)’’
. . . . . . . . . . . . . We won’t ask the Adv. to understand—because we know it can’t—the
nature  of  our  Yankee  girls;  but  we  glory  and  pride  in  that  brave  trait  of  our

36	  


countrywomen which makes them prefer a dollar and independence, to twice that sum without.




5
August 28, 1846



Yankee Impertinence


Does the audacious Boston Post mean to insinuate that we have any of Byron’s
10    weak spots?





August 29, 1846
15


The British Calico Protection


‘‘Thousands thrown out of employment.’’
In the memorable year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and thirty—for
the last time—seven cents per square yard were levied on printed calicoes in Great
20    Britain, and $12,400,000 (£2,640,000) were squeezed out of the poor; ostensibly to protect
the poor flax growers of Ireland, the hungry Spitalfield weavers, or the well fed wool
growers of the west of England. Ostensibly to protect indigenous products; but mark
the result. Out of the enormous sum levied on the people, only one-eighth found its
way into the exchequer—£350,000; the rest was swallowed up by sinecures, pensions,
25    inspectors, collectors, measurers, markers, stampers, and thousands of leeches called
excisemen. Moreover, the venal curiosity of these fiscal vampires left the cotton printer
no peace; and private improvements of great value to the inventor were in perpetual
jeopardy of being pirated and sold to any sordid rival. This was indeed protection with
a vengeance; and the poor female earning six pence a-day paid seven cents a yard on
30    her dress; that the younger sons of the aristocracy might live in luxury on their
sinecures; that thousands of excisemen, with good salaries, might ostensibly protect the
starving linen-weavers of the north of Ireland.
This oppressive impost is now replaced by the income tax—by those who are able
to pay it. But during the greater part of a century these ardent protectionists, (the
35    sinecurists, placemen and excisemen) having enlisted a portion of the press into their
service, succeeded in making the public believe that the abominable system com-
plained of, was a national benefit, and that all were interested in its support!



40


August 29, 1846


The Principles We Fight For


Jefferson lays down the following principles:
45
The People—the only source of legitimate power.
The absolute and lasting severance of Church from State.

  	37


The freedom, sovereignty, and independence of the respective States.
The Union—a confederacy, a compact, neither a consolidation, nor a centralization.
The Constitution of the Union; a special grant of powers, limited and definite.
The civil paramount to the military power.
The representative to obey instructions of his constituents.	5
Election free, and suffrage universal.
No hereditary office, nor order, nor title.
No taxation beyond the public wants.
No national debt, if possible.
No costly splendor of administration.	10
No proscription of opinion, nor of public discussion.
No unnecessary interference with individual conduct, property, or speech.
No favored classes, and no monopolies.
No public monies expended, except by warrants or a specific appropriation.
No mysteries in government inaccessible to the public eye.	15
Public compensation for public services, moderate salaries, and strict accountability.





August 29, 1846

20
A Visit to a Camp; &c.


    We went over to Governor ’s Island, yesterday afternoon, (28th) to have a breath- ing spell, and see the California regiment—to get a view of the alphabetical beginnings
of military force, and to say we saw the crude elements (if they ever start off!) out of  25 which one of the most powerful sections of the American confederacy is yet to be formed. For if Col. Stevenson’s company—as of course it will—effect a landing on the beautiful shores of California, it will just as surely be the nucleus of a great and flourishing state, in time to come, as that the laws of Nature hold their usual operation.
It must be so. The restless spirit of our people, the fertility of that soil, and whole-  30 someness of the air, and the facilities there for trade, make such consummation almost inevitable. . . . . . It is among the proudest pleasures of the lover of liberty, to contem- plate, not only the fuller developement of our populace, institutions and strength, in what will in a few years be the ‘old twenty-six’ states—but to imagine the spectacle that
the North American shores of the Pacific will exhibit long, long before the close of the  35 present century! The daring, burrowing energies of the nation will never rest till the whole  of  this  northern  section  of  the  Great  West  World  is  circled  in  the  mighty Republic—there’s no denying that fact!—And the new states that will rise on the Pacific must play an important part in our national destinies. Colonies will tend that way.  Instalments  from  the  Atlantic  country  and  from  far  beyond  the  Atlantic—  40 hundreds and thousands, before whom the wide world is spread, as a map, whereon they  feel  equally  at  home,  on  any  ‘unappropriated’  part—the  Yankees—sturdy Irish  and  German  immigrants—daring  young  ‘natives’  from  the  middle  states, too—the  Mormons—the  sinewy  hunter  and  adventurer  from  the  valley  of  the Mississippi—these are they who will form the elements out of which the now Dim  45
Majesty of the Pacific states, will take form and be a tangible reality. From their loins will spring a race, noble haply as our earlier freemen. For of such crude, turbulent, and

38	  


unhewn energies, the grandest empires have evolved themselves—such as Rome, in the olden time.
    —We were ferried over to Governor ’s Island by one of the Whitehall boatmen. The ‘Californian camp’ is situated on the eastern slope of the island—and on the
5    southern lies a large body of the ‘regulars,’ camped out in army style. In the California camp, and on the northern slope, things presented quite a martial show. Squads of men, more or less numerous, were going through their drill.—They were scattered about in every direction. Here was one who prided himself on the ‘knowledge he had gained,’ conferring it on a dozen raw fellows, just ‘caught’—affording a show richer
10    than any thing read of in Pickwick. One of these minor scenes, in especial, struck us as irresistibly funny.—The instructed parties were a verdant youth, with eyes as big as saucers, and a middle-aged, vinegar-looking, old-bachelor-like personage, toothless, and grum—with a dirty straw hat on his head, and his coat buttoned tight across his breast. Hackett’s Militia Muster was a mere gosling to the full-fledged comicality of
15    these two personages’ evolutions. In spite of the ‘high presence’ of the officers, &c., we were forced incontinently to laugh loud and long—and a merry gentleman whose companionship we were favored with on our excursion, had to drop himself down upon the grass, before he recovered from his cachinations at the same exhausting performance.  Most  of  the  squads,  however,  went  through  their  manœuvres  very
20    creditably, considering the opportunities they have had of learning. Indeed, the better and more advanced of them, (as far as our uninitiated judgment in such matters could tell,) seemed quite as much at home—and obeyed the ‘word of command’ as promptly and handsomely, as some of the crack corps in New York, that we have heard praised and praised highly.
25		Entering the old Fort that looks up the river, we ascended the winding staircase of one of the turrets, and from the battlements at the top, looked on one of the most magnificent views God ever spread out for mortal eyes to admire! Far, far up stretched the rolling Hudson, with its elevated banks dressed in green, and the white houses of Hoboken and Jersey City—and the innumerable river craft coming and crossing and
30    going on its capacious breast. To the south west lay the sleepy-looking hills of Staten Island, their sides dotted with dwellings, and with not a flaw in the varied spread of their quiet gracefulness. On every side was the moving panorama of vessels, and flapping waves. There too was the great metropolis to the north east, its perpetual hum coming indistinctly to the ear. Far above its loftiest roofs, towered the proud spire of
35    Old Trinity, and over the splendid verdure of the Battery trees, rose the oval cupola of the Exchange; while a thick forest of masts hid the shores to the right altogether from the eye. Nor must we forget our own beautiful Brooklyn, with its saucy-browed Heights jutting out on the river, and proffering their claims for admiration to the sight of every body in the neighborhood. And over those old battlements the ocean wind
40    sweeps incessantly—and it was a huge joy to breathe such stuff, after coming from the streets, and slushed gutters of the city.
    Towards  evening  the  military  appearance  of  Governor ’s  Island  increased  in intensity. The squads of manœuverers seemed to work with more ardor—and to multiply in number. The band of the station, (and a fine band it was,) brought out
45    their music, and practised some choice German and Italian marches. The drummer boys, and juvenile fifers, collected together. A large body of the regulars were paraded on the green, and went through their evolutions like clock-work; that was indeed

  	39


discipline. Then the drums beat for roll call—after which the men were dismissed. After which we saw a famous game at foot ball, incident to the same being any quantity of mishaps and tumblings down—all, however, adding to the glee of the time.

5



August 31, 1846


Impediments to Trade


    In the time of Charles the 2d of Spain a company of Dutch contractors offered to  10 render the Mancares navigable from Madrid to where it falls into the Tagus, and the latter from that point to Lisbon, provided they were allowed to levy a duty for a certain number of years on the goods conveyed by this channel. The council of Castile took the proposal into their serious consideration, and after maturely weighing it decided ‘‘that
if it had pleased God that these two rivers should have been navigable He would not  15 have wanted human assistance to have made them such, but as He had not done it, it is plain that He did not think it proper that it should be done. To attempt it, therefore, would be to violate the decrees of His providence, and to mend the imperfections which He designedly left in His works.’’ . . . . . . Except Africa, no country is more destitute of the means of internal communication than Spain; but in the United States  20 all are aware of the immense advantages resulting to society from the introduction of canals and railroads, and the benefits conferred by the improvement of the navigation
of  our  rivers;  we  all  know  that  their  availability  is  to  facilitate  the  means  of transportation and communication between the different parts of the Union.—Now, all
the arguments that can be used in favor of improving our internal intercourse will apply with  25 equal force to the abolition of tariff restrictions between all nations. Only look to Spain, the land par excellence of tariffs, of protection, of monopolies, and mark the result: For nearly three centuries, from 100,000 to 150,000 individuals have been engaged in their favorite occupation of smuggling. Only look at a single article of her tariff—wrought iron articles are wholly excluded, and 200 per cent. imposed on iron in bars (en bruto.)  30
This is done to protect the iron masters in the Bask provinces—in other words, a trifling advantage conferred on one individual at the expense and to the serious injury of the other 99! Where monopolies have once taken root, experience proves that it is almost impossible to eradicate, or even to modify them. Indigo was long prohibited in
England, lest it might injure the growers of woad, a native plant, and her clothiers had  35 no alternative but to send their cloths to Holland to be dyed, where the devil’s dye, or indigo, was freely admitted.





August 31, 1846

40

Slavery


    Though the Syracuse Standard agrees with us in our former position respecting slavery in Oregon, we cannot agree with it in denouncing the Southern M. C’s. for  45 voting against the anti-slavery restriction of the Oregon Territorial Government bill, which passed the House of Representatives, but was defeated in the Senate by ‘‘honest
    
40	  


John Davis’’ (‘‘honest Iago!’’) speaking against time, during the last hours of the session. We at the north must remember that our fellow citizens at the south by nature and education view those things differently from what we view them. Let them evolve their notions as far as they wish, and can constitutionally do so—and let us do the
5    same. Have we any fear but that the right will eventually triumph? Lo! the promise of it is seen in that very deliberate vote of the H. of R.!





10    August 31, 1846


Literary Notices


THE    CONVICT’S   CHILD.—By  Charles Burdett, author of ‘‘Lilla Hart,’’ &c.
Without any high literary excellence, such stories as this Convict’s Child appears
15    to be, may with propriety be allowed a place in the home reading of every family. Mr.
Burdett is, we believe, a reporter attached to the N. Y. press—a situation, he intimates
in his preface, which has given him the opportunities of knowing most of the inci-
dents which he relates in this and his other books. The moral of the Convict’s Child is
unquestionably a good one. And we cannot forbear an approving word, for the large
20    type and well-spaced pages of this little book; it is printed well, and bound neatly. (For
sale, in Brooklyn, by Wilder & Co., 51 Fulton street and 139 Atlantic st.; to which
well conducted stores we recommend any of our readers who may want books or
stationery.)

25    Littell’s LIVING   AGE,  No. 120.—Taylor, 2 Astor House, N. Y.
John Quincy Adams says, of the Age: ‘‘Of the periodical journals devoted to
Literature and Science, this has appeared to me the most useful.’’




30
September 1, 1846



Acting . . . . The Keans


The Morning News appears angry because we do not applaud Mrs. and Mr. Kean.
35    In good sooth, the history of the stage can show few instances of greater business done
on infinitely little capital, than in young Kean’s case. His manner, gait, and gestures
are unnatural—his almost invariable tone being what may be called a nasal huskiness,
(to invent a phrase, for something so new, that there has never been any need of
describing it,)—and his constant wrenching of the eye-brows is surely out of all nature
40    and truth. Though other actors have had as sharp jagged voices as Mr. Kean’s voice,
that demerit has been counterbalanced by genius—which he has not. That he has not
that indescribable facility of fitness to the character to be represented—not the least
particle of the ‘divine fire’ which all real artists have, beyond the mere mechanical
tact—is as surely undeniable. Long familiarity with the stage, considerable study, &c.,
45    have of course enabled Mr. Kean to possess the knack of gaining here and there what is
called ‘a point’ in his acting. It would be strange, playing year after year, if he did not.
But this is merely the exception, not the rule. His present position is the result solely of
fortuitous  circumstances—his  father ’s  mighty  fame,  the  disputes  about  his  talent

  	41


abroad, his marriage with Ellen Tree, &c., &c.—As respects his position in this country, that is not much. The principal two-cent paper in New York is suborned for a regular sum to puff him every day. The ‘situation’ of very few New York editors is such that they both can and will speak their independent opinions of an actor or any other artist.— They  are  slaves,  moreover,  to  the  dictation  (assumed  or  really  made)  by  foreign	5
‘critics.’ They dare not think for themselves, or look out of their own eyes. They have, it is true, the wonderful courage to seize on such a third-rate man as Mr. Collins, and hunt him down—but they quail at condemning infinitely greater defections, such as Kean’s.
    Of the lady, truth will not allow much more favorable mention. She was a young  10 woman of genius—she is merely the frame and thews of that time, with none of its pliant grace, its smoothness, its voluptuous swell—(merely ex-Tree, and not extra.) Gallantry and common politeness require the avoidance of criticising her merits as plainly as her husband’s. Manliness and ordinary decency, however, demand even more imperatively the avoidance of that fulsome sawdering stuff of praise which a  15 portion of the papers voluntarily demean themselves to publish.
    As to what ‘‘stock performers’’ in this country are better than the Keans: Strip the incidental glare from the latter, and not one local or general ‘favorite’ on our American stage, but is better.—Miss Clarke at the Olympic is better, and truer—only she is ‘little Miss Clarke.’ Mrs. Shaw is better. In their lines, Mrs. Vernon, Susan Cushman, (we  20 cannot stoop to the Keans, from Charlotte) Mrs. Chapman and Mrs. Hilson that we used to have at the Park, are or were better. Jamison can give Kean any odds, and play better. John R. Scott is better. In their lines, Placide and Barrett and Chippendale develope ‘gifts’ that are as much ahead of the Keans as one of Thorburn’s choice fragrant lilies is ahead of the gaudiest bunch of artificial gauze and silver flower-work  25 ever made by the cunningest French milliner!





September 1, 1846

30
Mr. Bryant


    The morning papers mention that Wm. Cullen Bryant has returned, well and refreshed, from his long and circuitous tour. We improve the occasion of mentioning
this fact, to mention something more. . . . . . . Sometimes, walking across the Park, in  35
N. Y., or along one of the thoroughfares of the city, you may meet a plainly dressed
man  of  middling  size,  considerably  beyond  the  younger  age  of  life,  with  rather
bloodless  complexion,  sparse  white  hair,  and  expressive  quiet  grey  eyes.  Of  this
description is William Cullen Bryant—a poet who, to our mind, stands among the first
in the world. (American criticism is given to superlatives, and it is provoking that  40
when merit does deserve and receive the highest praise, it gets no more than has been
put to presumptuous literary quacks.) It is an honor and a pride to the democratic
party that it has such a man to conduct one of its principal newspapers—to be an
expounder of its doctrines, and act as one of the warders to watch the safety of the
citadel.	45
We have called Bryant one of the best poets in the world. This smacks so much of
the exaggerated that we are half a mind to alter it, true as we sincerely believe it to be.
But we will let it stand. We know that a prophet has but little fame in his own country,

42	  


and that there are many among us who think no author ’s worth established till he has been endorsed by European approval. Bryant, indeed, has been thus endorsed. Moreover, there will come a time when the writings of this beautiful poet shall attain their  proper  rank—a  rank  far  higher  than  has  been  accorded  to  them  by  many
5    accomplished men, who think of them by no means disparagingly. We allude to such as, like the critic on American poetry in the Democratic Review, place Mr. Bryant ‘‘not in the first, or second, but in the third or fourth rank.’’. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Foreign appreciation of American literary talent is sometimes truer than native. ‘‘We have been all along looking out,’’ says the Foreign Quarterly Review, ‘‘for a pure
10    American poet, who should be strictly national in the comprehensive sense of the term.
The only man who approaches that character is William Cullen Bryant. He does not
thrust the American flag in our faces, and threaten the world with the terrors of a gory
peace; he exults in the issues of freedom for nobler ends and larger interests. He is the
only one of the American poets who ascends to ‘the height of this great argument,’ and
15    lifts his theme above the earthly taint of bigotry and prejudice. In him, by virtue of
poetry that is in his heart, such themes grow into dignity. His genius makes all men
participators in them, seeking and developing the universality that lies at the core. The
woods, prairies, mountains, tempests, and seasons, the life of the destiny of man, are
the subjects in which he delights.’’
20




September 2, 1846

25


Matters with Mexico

    Santa Anna is very likely in peaceable possession of the reins of Mexican government,  by  this  time.—The  inquiry  is  thus  very  general  in  men’s  minds hereabout, as to the effect his advent will have on our war with that miscalled republic. In all probability it will have a good effect: Santa Anna is for peace. . . . . . It is not
30    unlikely that when Mr. Polk goes out of office, he will leave the present ‘ample space and verge enough’ of our confederacy, enlarged by a quarter or a third greater space. California is to be ours. Santa Fe may be ours.
    That the popular instincts go for an increased ‘area of freedom,’ is undeniable. And the popular instincts are right. Our union will stand steadier, the broader and
35    more massive the base on which it stands. It is not the vulgar spirit of conquest and acquisition, either: it is exulting pride in the spread of man’s rights, and in the surrounding of their identity with the highest phase of national grandeur, potential strength, and wealth—of physical extent in one compacted nation—athwart which the sun of heaven ever beamed!
40




September 2, 1846

45



Will Not the World Learn Wisdom?


    Hardly a chapter in the later history of civilized countries, but has some item, from which to infer the evils of legislatures attempting to meddle with the great laws of
    
  	43


trade, which are really involved in the great laws of Nature. The intelligence of the age, indeed, in nearly all countries, is settling down to the conviction, that prohibitory tariffs, for the purpose of assisting ‘domestic manufactures,’ do their little good at expense of an immense sum of evil! If nature has denied a certain country the facilities
of raising a certain production, all the imposts in the world, on the foreign similar	5
production, will not enable it to be raised at home: If nature is kind, of course no
‘protection’ is needed. All attempts to ‘protect’ any given branch of manufactures are
at  the  expense  of  the  consumers.  Such  attempts  are  necessarily  unequal  in  their
operation—and therefore unfit for a democratic government: Particularly are they
unfit for a government like ours—a compact of states, of which no one has the right to  10
be benefitted at the expense of others. (The productions of Massachusetts are ‘pro-
tected’ to the amt. of 75 per cent, on the whole—those of Mississippi, South Carolina,
&c., 2 1⁄2     per cent—those of New York a little over 20 per cent.; and so  on.)
From such facts as are contained in the extract we give below, may be reasoned a
few of the fallacies of the meddling system—the struggle on the part of legislators,  15
(specious struggles, starting almost invariably from some selfishly partial motive,) to
‘regulate’ what can be no more regulated,—‘as they understand it’—than the seasons
or the waves of God’s great seas.
[Extract from Journal of Commerce omitted—85 ll.]
20




September 2, 1846


The Attacks on Mrs. Farnham
25

    We are sorry to see the principal penny paper of the metropolis over the way, spreading through the million channels where it circulates, the sentiments averse to prison reform, and to ameliorating the old rigidity of law, which it does. Does the Sun actually believe that the old rigidity is profitable in prisons? Is it so unaware of what is known by every one who will take the trouble to see for himself—that the softening of  30 that intense severity, and every forward step which Mrs. Farnham has taken in the path of humanity, has been responded to by the happiest effects? The truth is, the most practical and most profound men of the age are deeply penetrated with the conviction that, up to a certain limit, the milder the laws, consistent with public safety, the greater
the depreciation of crime. All experience has proved this to be so. In those ages and  35 countrys where the laws have most lightly valued life, taking it away for the most ordinary derelictions, there crime has been most plentiful, and there it has retained its plenty and strength, in spite of hanging, whipping, and all the ingenious inventions of cruelty. It is a singular truth that there are less burglaries and thefts now committed in Great Britain, in proportion, during a year, than during any of those years when  40 burglars and thieves were hung! Answer that! ye pleaders for the dungeon, the fetter,
and the gallows, if ye can! We defy all the Cheevers and Lewises of the land to get over such a simple fact.
    Supposing all that the penny print over the river assumes as true, about the late chaplain at Sing Sing, we can see little excuse in its savage flings at Mrs. Farnham. That  45 lady is identified with the principle of prison reform—and, if she has a fair chance, we
for one are content to let it stand or fall with her efforts, and their success or failure. Suppose there was a difference of opinion about certain minor details in the prison—

44	  


and suppose the Inspectors, (having to choose between dismissing Mrs. F. or the chaplain,) dismissed the chaplain. Will the Sun deliberately espouse the cause, the antipodes of the more humane code of which Mrs. Farnham is in this connection, the representative? Will it scatter over the immense scope it moves in, the poison of those
5    revengeful and sanguinary teachings, so repugnant to christianity, and to the gentle aims and noble improvements, which are the light of this age, over the shadow of the dark ages?
—Of all the cant and stuff we hear in this artificial world, the worst and weakest—
(the pleasantest we imagine, for the devil’s own appetite)—is that cant which calls
10    humanity  for  the  sons  and  daughters  of  vice  ‘‘mawkish  sympathy.’’  It  is  quite
fashionable, among a certain set of men, to denounce and turn up their noses at those
who, following the spirit of Christ, would ‘‘overcome evil with good,’’ and give not
way to wrath and revenge. And yet some of this set of men get up of Sundays in the
pulpit and hold forth as the accredited ministers of Him who was without guile!
15    Shameless perversion! He whom they profess to follow was ever gentle with wayward
man, encouraged those who repented to go and sin no more, and in the last and
finishing glory of his life, selected from the great mass around him a despised and
writhing felon, then and there crucified for his crimes, to ‘‘sup with him that night in
Paradise’’!
20	Indeed,—as to the more depraved crimes, and the punishment of those who
commit them—when men come to reflect on the subject, they will be disposed to make
very  different  distinctions  from  those  made  by  the  law.  We  are  aware  that  there
sometimes  occur  cases  of  murder  so  horrible  that  the  universal  indignation  of
humanity rises up against them, and cries out for the blood of the homicide. We might
25    answer that the law should not be made for these cases, which are rare, but for
murders in general—which reply would be very pertinent. But we admit the first
statement; and assert that such murders also should be punished by imprisonment for
life. Let the assassin’s heart be gnawed by remorse—as it will sooner or later be,
however deeply he may have steeped himself in guilt! Let him be taken aside from the
30    world, kept in the strong walls whose confines he is never to pass, out of the free light
and sweeping air, and away from that society whom he has outraged by taking the
vitality of one of its members! There let the long seasons of his weary time roll heavily
on, till his iron soul is conquered, and the deep fountains which sleep even in the
wickedest bosom are touched. Perpetual imprisonment Good God! is not that enough?
35    Why, we are almost shocked at our own inhumanity, when we write an argument for
so cruel a doom in any case.





40    September 2, 1846


Ion, Last Night


    The N. Y. Gazette thinks it ‘‘funny’’ and the News thinks it ‘‘ridiculous,’’ that we look on the Keans as no better than several of our own stock performers. Those
45    prints—and most of the N. Y. prints—are so accustomed to pinning their faith on others’ sleeves, in such matters, and swimming with the vulgar current, that we are not surprised at this. Independent opinions, uninfluenced by the tawdry glitter of

  	45


foreign fame, (not real, but generally an assumed foreign fame—for critics abroad are truer than here,) may, doubtless do, seem ridiculous and funny enough to our city neighbors.  Such  as  we  have  expressed  about  the  Keans  are  our  honest  opinions, however: and that’s more than a man will get from the New York papers in a month of Sundays.	5
    We went over to the Park last night, (1st inst.) to see the beautiful tragedy of Ion. Anderson, in playing Ion, during his last engagement in New York, ran athwart the pen-nibs of sundry thick-skulled critics, who insisted forsooth that it was a woman’s character, and ought never to be taken by one with beard on his lip. But as Anderson gave it, the gentle dreaming boy stood beside us, better than even by Mrs. Kean  10 herself, in our opinion.—There is indeed something irreconcilable—always so—in the representation of a male character on the stage, by a female—bad enough where it is a young female, but quite disgusting when the counterfeit presentment is an elderly one, though disguised by ever so much rouge and falselegs. Then the voice; whoever heard
a healthy youth speak in any thing like the tone which even Mrs. Kean, one of the  15 sweetest-voiced women we ever heard, uses? It always grates our ears, and we would that women should stick to their petticoats and ‘‘nothin’ else.’’ Were it not that custom
has made their assumption of men’s parts somewhat allowable, we should be just as much shocked by it as to see a strapping actor seriously representing Desdemona or Richelieu’s Julie! . . . . . . Mr. Kean’s Adrastus, last night, was a mere vulgar tyrant,  20 with a cold in his head. A pocket handkerchief would have been more appropriate to
his hands, than the sceptre of Argos.





September 3, 1846

25

What Is Best for Workingmen?


 MR. EDITOR: If high wages are consequent upon a high rate of duties, why are wages  so low in countries where the duties are prohibitory?	30
MECHANIC.
—Excessively high duties paralyze general trade—at least retard it immensely;
and that injures enterprise and workingmen’s wages. It happens, moreover, that in
quite all countries where the duties are prohibitory, there is a great superabundance of
hands clamoring for employment, and mouths for bread on any terms. . . . . . A mere  35
putting up of the Tariff ever so high, would not raise the general average of the
payment for labor in this country.—That average would be nominally raised however,
(for a time,) by what is called ‘‘making money plenty’’—that is, letting the banks print
money, and doubling the amt. in circulation. Thus a carpenter would get $3 a day,
where he now gets only $1 1⁄2; but he would have to pay out at least Five where he now pays  40
only  Two  dollars;  and  the  difference  is  pocketed  by  the  kind  gentlemen  who  so
disinterestedly make the money plenty. . . . . . The lowest possible imposts on trade, in
any way—as little paper money as possible—legislatures, both general and state,
abstaining from meddling so much with the relation between labor and its payment,
(to tamper with which by law is like giving physic to a healthy vigorous youth, that  45
nature developes best when let alone) these, in such a truly ‘great’ country as ours,
involve the real interests of the workingmen. We have only a line more. Has any one of

46	  


our laboring fellow citizens such thin perceptions—does he imagine in his most abstracted dreams—that all this hubbub made by the pale-fingered richly-housed whig manufacturers, and their organs, is for him, the laborer?

5



September 3, 1846


Flogging in Schools


10		A good deal of attention has been turned, in New England of late, to the practice of flogging in schools. It is hard, we know, to obliterate even a foolish and wicked practice, that has long precedent to support it. And yet this lashing plan, for schools, is one of the most abhorrent relics, in its way, of a barbarous and ignorant belief. Its influence is poisonous, as such: for the objection to it is not on account of the mere
15    physical pain, or any thing of that sort. An American boy should be taught from his very birth, the highest tone of self-respect and moral pride—to which blows  are fatal. . . . . . Investigating a late flogging case at New Haven, the school  committee conclude their report on it, (a report describing a case which has too many duplicates, we fear,) as follows: ‘‘The too frequent habit of inflicting corporeal punishment, for the
20    violation of mere arbitrary rules of discipline in schools, which are as various as the taste or caprice of their authors, and sometimes as absurd as they are useless, confounds in the minds of the young, all accurate distinctions between right and wrong, perverts the design of the law in delegating so delicate a trust as the power of corporeal chastisement into the hands of a stranger, blunts the sensibilities of the
25    young, and hardens their hearts to commit more malignant offences, for which is reserved no punishment adequate for the same, within his province to inflict.’’





30    September 3, 1846


Indirect Taxation


    ‘‘The people of every State,’’ says Adam Smith, ‘‘ought to contribute towards the support of the government, as nearly as possible in proportion to their respective
35    abilities; that is, in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the State. The expense of government to the individuals of a great nation is like the expense of management to the joint tenants of a great estate.—In the observation or neglect of this maxim consists what is called the quality or inequality of taxation.’’ If a duty be levied on sugar, salt, clothing, or any of the necessaries of life,
40    the man who earns a dollar a day contributes much more in proportion to his income than the individual who enjoys a revenue of ten or twenty thousand dollars a year. It is therefore unequal and falls most heavily on those who are least able to bear it. [Description of operation of ‘‘code of salt laws formerly established in France’’ omitted.—22 ll.] The expenses of collection in raising a revenue by indirect taxes are
45    infinitely greater than on direct taxation; and in a country essentially commercial like the U. S., toll houses or Custom Houses ought only to be tolerated as a last shift. They were calculated for the dark ages.

  	47




September 3, 1846


What the Immigrant Said


It is a common hobby with our ‘native’ friends, to assume that persons born in the
old world are so inoculated with anti-republican institutions, that they cannot realize,   5
and truly deport themselves in, our institutions. Now let any man bethink him a
moment whether the very contrast between things here and abroad, is not likely to
make our immigrant citizens clear-eyed to the advantages we enjoy. . . . . . . . . The
Journal of Commerce says it asked a German, in the upper part of the city, a day or two
since, whether he was succeeding better in business here than in his own country. ‘‘If  10
I were not,’’ he replied, ‘‘I should not stay; but I like this country because  it is a free
country. All people are alike here, but in my country those who have a little money will
hardly notice a poor man—a poor man is nothing. But here such differences do not
exist,  all  enjoy  respect  and  advantages.  I  like  this  country  because  it  is  a  free
country’’. . . . . . . . . . . . It is this Freedom from the sense of degradation, (adds the J.)  15
this not merely religious and political, but civil and social liberty, this consciousness of
freedom from the pride of aristocracy and wealth, this knowledge that to industry,
intelligence, and virtue, all avenues to honor and influence are open,—that cheers and
elevates all classes of our society. Here nothing has authority over men’s minds but
Law; and this our system works almost as silently and invisibly as in Nature. This is,  20
emphatically, and as no other, a FREE    COUNTRY.





September 3, 1846

25
Plays and Players


    As to dramatic acting, there is nothing, at the present day, which is entangled so completely in the meshes of humbug—utter and most intolerable humbug. There is nothing which more requires the sharp knife and the heavy axe. Common cant talks of  30 the ‘decline of the drama’; but the truth is, the state of the stage, the principles on which actors act, and the mode in which plays are written, are all wrong and rotten. And so long as they continue to rule, so long will the drama fail of its great office—of enlightening, purifying, ennobling, and making poetical, the souls of men. Mrs. and
Mr. Kean—our incidental remarks about whom disturb certain contemporaries—are  35 but  fractions  of  the  almost  unmitigated  falseness  to  nature,  which  the  drama presents;—though being prominent, they are legitimate points of attack. . . . . . . . . . . . We are at a loss, however, to know what part of our remarks on the lady, the Tribune considers so ‘barbarous,’ ‘unmanly,’ and ‘unmannerly.’
40




September 4, 1846


Appaling!
45

The whig organs are saying that
‘‘Fourteen cotton printers from Robertson’s Print Works have gone to Europe to
obtain work.’’

48	  


    —Yes; and a host of shoemakers have shipped, expressly to make pegged shoes for her Majesty’s subjects out of free trade leather, tanned and curried in New York and Massachusetts. We say free trade leather because it enters England duty free; this is the beginning of the free trade system—the new era. We shall be able to shoe her majesty’s
5    subjects ‘‘all round’’ at prices that will make the natives stare; for sole leather worth 12 cents in N. Y. cannot be obtained in England under 30 to 36. Ask the tanners in the Swamp what has reduced the price of leather one half, and they will tell you that over production and want of foreign markets have done the work. Ask our millers whether foreign  competition  has  brought  down  the  price  of  flour  to  a  point  previously
10    unknown, and they will answer: the market is over stocked, we want an outlet, we can produce enough for the ‘‘great globe itself,’’ if there were neither tariffs nor toll houses in the way. And our cotton manufacturers and cotton printers are well aware that their embarrassments are all owing to the same cause. . . . . . . . . . . . As well might our peach growers complain of foreign competitors; with equal truth might they assert that
15    the new tariff had knocked down the price of their fruit to ten cents per bushel.
We supply the Canada market with all kinds of cotton goods, calicoes, &c. After
paying 10 per cent. duty, we have driven the British out of their own markets. We
have to a certain extent, done the same in the British possessions in India; also, in
China, in South America, where it is well known that no European nation can compete
20    with us. But if our manufactories and cotton printers have glutted the home market,
and every other market within their reach, it is nothing marvellous that a reaction
should take place. From the means in our possession the market of the world is not too
large for us. The limited demand of our own country will not suffice. We want an
outlet. Only abolish all tariffs; that would be a gift from Heaven to the people of the
25    U. S.! Custom Houses throughout the universe are a marring feature on civilization;
they were the offspring of the ignorance of the feudal ages; they deprive us of foreign
markets; they chain down the energy of people; here, they excite the south against the
north. . . . . . . . . . . . The protectionists, so called, might as well endeavor to stop the
current of the Hudson or the Mississippi in their course, as to shackle the exertions of
30    our population by Custom House regulations. In all the branches we have seriously
engaged in, no nation can compete with us.





35    September 4, 1846


Honest Opinions Forever!


    If intelligent writers for the press will only express their real opinions of the stage, and of players, we shall soon have things as nearly right as they can be under the old
40    system—which will be something gained. There are really very few men who will summon courage to say or write the actual way in which any work of art—or the performances of an artist—really strikes them. Now when one goes and sees a play or a player, he need not remember the puffs he has read in the morning papers—because, in most cases, the puffs are paid for either in money to the publisher, or treats, suppers,
45    or gifts to the critics. He need not be afraid of offending other people’s tastes—because nature has given him eyes and ears, and the passions which if acting touches not it is no acting—and, as far as he goes, he is as much a part of the audience to be pleased as any other one man, and he had far better be himself than any body else, in making up

  	49


his mind. He need not even rely on the criticisms of acknowledged ‘men of talent’; because two-thirds of the men of talent, now-a-days, are schooled artificially, till their brains have often the same false tone as the palate of the habitual user of stimu- lants. . . . . . If a picture, a sculpture, a play or an actor, don’t impress you highly, don’t affect to be impressed highly, for that some self-styled connoisseurs have gone in	5 raptures about it. That would be a miserable affectation indeed—and yet it is common
as the hours. Most people get into the general contagion around them, in such things: it is enough for them to know what ‘the fashion’ is. This has come to be a very serious evil, particularly in the drama. The merest ‘stick,’ properly ‘brought before the public,’
by himself, his friends, or a theatrical manager, takes, to appearance, all those plaudits  10 which should be reserved for rare and royal genius. . . . . . Here we have, season after season, the veriest succession of third-rate players, superannuated playeresses, and broken-down foreign artists, paraded for (their profits and) the admiration of the Americans, and successfully so—a fact to make a man ashamed of his country, and suspicious of another fact, otherwise firm as the hills, that we are the most intellectual  15 nation on the breast of the earth!
    And it is such truckling that takes the health out not only of our literature, but our criticism—an office, this latter, which has no worth in this country, and is confessedly in the dust. When will American writers, even the best of them, learn to be true to the
souls and thoughts God has given them?—When will they cast the slough of the  20 imitation of the conventionalities of other people?—the slough not only of the past, with its mummery, its iron foolishness, and its paralytic influence on natural truth—
but of the present, coming to them at second hand, and having the same degenerating effect in the moral world as continued breeding in-and-in has in the physical.
25




September 4, 1846


Late Publications
30

Western Review—A monthly periodical, issued at Columbus, Ohio. We have not
seen a copy—but observe a column of denunciation about it in a leading whig print,
and therefore wish the publishers to send it to our address.
Living Age.—No. 104 of this sterling periodical has been sent us.
From W. H. Graham, Tribune Buildings, N. Y., we have received the Philadelphia  35
monthlies.
Several other works are also on hand, which deserve, and will soon receive a more
elaborate notice.


40


September 4, 1846


Junior Clerks


A late Boston Bee says:	45
    ‘‘The clerks and salesmen in this community owe it to themselves to assemble together, and exchange their views, publicly, on the subject of the relations which they bear to the mercantile world, and take measures to improve their condition.’’
    
50	  


    — Two weeks since, a young gentleman called at our office for a copy of the paper, printed a few days before, containing a certain item. He was out of a ‘situation’; having been lately discharged on acct. of McKay’s Tariff, by his nabob employer, (the youth’s salary had been the enormous sum of $50 a-year!) which employer came over to
5    Brooklyn—where, we believe, he resides—and outlaid just forty times the amt. of the young man’s annual wages in a pew or pews in one of our fashionable churches. . . . . . Many of the junior clerks in this part of the United States, (and doubtless most parts,) receive the most miserable pittance for working like dray-horses during the ‘busy season,’ and having quite as much as a young fellow should have to do, during the rest
10    of the time. Many of them get not one cent! Most of those that receive pay, receive from
$50 to $150 a year—out of which they are expected to pay their board, and clothe
themselves neatly. (The standard of dress is altogether too costly and showy among
our young fellows. Don’t they know that the really ‘genteel’ pay not half as much
regard to the extras and flummery of apparel as mere ‘counterjumpers’? Be cleanly and
15    point device in your persons—but leave patent-leather and very low waistcoats to the
apes whom nature has disguised by humanity.)
It  is  astonishing—when  one  knows  it—what  numerous  instances  of  petty
meanness many of the ‘great merchants,’—importers, manufacturers, jobbers, (and the
retailers too) are guilty of toward their clerks—meannesses of cents and sixpences.
20    They appear to forget that young fellows have stomachs which possess a marvellous
affinity to bread and beef—have generally a great deal of spirit and ambition—are
susceptible to kindness and generosity on the part of their employers—like to enjoy,
(in the beautiful cheerful impulses of youth,) some of the numerous pleasures God has
vouchsafed in this goodly world—like to have a few leisure hours now and then, and a
25    few extra dimes in their pockets, for contingencies. All these things are seldom realized
by those who employ clerks: it is a mere strife, with them, to get the utmost possible
service, for the lowest possible payment. Then, too, how rarely the employer enters
with any thing like friendly interest into the personal hopes, aims, and schemes of
those who work for him! How seldom he condescends to aid them, even by the cheap
30    assistance of kind inquiry, or a word of sympathy and companionship!
We think the clerk market over stocked—and should never, except under peculiar
circumstances, advise a boy to ‘go into a store.’ But that is no reason why so many
clerks should be treated as if they were not the same flesh and blood with those who
‘rule over them.’
35



September 5, 1846
40	Chinese Doctrines Broached among Us—
and Our Answer to Them

    We will annihilate the tariff positions of the Brooklyn whig organs of yesterday, in the shortest kind of metre. . . . . . The Star in its process of boxing the compass on tariff
45    doctrine, appears now to have become a convert to the Chinese ideas of such things. It would have us treat the rest of the world as ‘outside barbarians’; it is for insulating the United States from other countries—and letting the republic live altogether in a state of

  	51


‘single blessedness.’ Its language is, ‘‘We want no foreign commerce!’’ (its words, not ours.) It argues that we should utterly prohibit the importation of iron, wool, etc., and so on. Under such prohibition, it goes on to say,

    —‘‘there would be a vast spring given to the industry of our country—a very profitable and	5 healthful industry to many thousands! Aye, and who would suffer, Mr. Eagle? Would any man want good clothing, or would any mechanic want good tools? Whoever thinks we would want, does not know the capacities of our country! . . . . . . We advise every man who has any doubt upon the matter, to take up the official list of imports—published every year by the Government
at Washington—and let him observe how very few are the articles which may not be produced or manufactured at home! He would be almost ready to exclaim—We want no foreign commerce!  10
Coffee, tea, silks, wines and drugs, are among the essential luxuries, and for these we support a navy which costs seven millions per year, and large foreign consular establishments. All which we import, that might be produced at home, is a wrong  against American labor.’’

    Now avowals like this are honest, and you can meet them! They involve the true  15 protectionist code—and we only wish other whig papers would walk up and toe the mark with as verdant a sincerity. . . . . . . . . . . . Suppose we of the U. S. become all in
all to ourselves, and have ‘‘no foreign commerce’’: if we take nothing from other nations,  they  will  take  nothing  from  us—all  those  immense  interests  among  our citizens, which are involved in commercial intercourse with the rest of the world,  20 would languish, perhaps die—the wholesome strife of emulation, and the prolific improvements in machinery, and the spirit of invention both at home and abroad, would receive no impetus—the million of goodly chains which bind us in our common brotherhood to the rest of humanity (did not God make the ‘whole world’ and pro- nounce it good?) would be severed. On the other hand, by free trade we are inter-  25 laced in our affections and interests, (and it is beautiful so!) with all the great globe. We
are now strengthening those bands of affection among every community, in every section  of  the  earth—spreading  our  name,  our  fame,  and  the  knowledge  of  the practicability of rational freedom, to the uttermost parts, where men dwell. The exuberant energies and talents of our people, the infinite variety and fertility of our soil, the  30 inventive powers we have,—everything necessary to make a greater producing and commercial nation than the sun ever yet shone upon, or that has entered in the mind of
any man, under old notions, to conceive—they are inherent in the United States, and we  cannot  be  deprived  of  them.  Or  rather  yes:  for  we  can  be  deprived  of  their developement and profitable action, by one thing, and that thing is a permanent and  35 prohibitory tariff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Why—do our whig friends imagine that the American people have no higher ambition than to seat themselves quietly down at their own firesides, like misanthropic hermits,
bar all communion with their neighbors, subsist on the simplest and quietest, and scatter abroad no blessings or productions of their own? Believe us, our destination is  40 higher: our means and capacities are wider. On the sublime scale of our own territory,
our rivers, mountains and cascades, so be our great scope of action in this matter—so be our large-hearted magnanimity to the rest of the world, which is the soundest profit to ourselves too. . . . . . We will go farther than the Star: we will say there are no articles
of general trade but may be produced in this confederacy.	45
— We assure the other whig organ, the Advertiser, that whether Gen. Jackson had
or had not those notions which it italicises in an old letter of his (written more than

52	  


twenty years ago,) we most decidedly have not. After that truly great man became President, some of his most democratic achievements were identified with the free trade doctrine. The Adv. will probably not see into it—but we will tell it that there are many democrats whose reverence for any man, however high and however holy, will
5    not delude them into the support of a principle which they feel assured is wrong. In saying this, we by no means wish to be understood as acknowledging that Gen. Jackson was a ‘protectionist’ or any thing of the sort.




10
September 5, 1846



The English Flogging Case


Among the items by the Britannia, we get the official verdict of the inquest in the
15    case of White, private of the 7th Hussars. That verdict was, ‘‘That the deceased soldier
Frederick John White, died on the 11th July, 1846, from the mortal effects of a severe and
cruel flogging of 150 lashes, which he received on the 15th June, 1846, at the Cavalry
Barracks, on Hounslow-heath, Heston: that the said flogging was inflicted on his back
and neck, under the sentence of a district court martial, composed of the officers of the
20    7th Regiment of Hussars, held on the 12th of June previous, duly constituted for his
trial. That the said court-martial was authorized by law to inflict the said severe and
cruel sentence; that the flogging was inflicted upon him by two farriers, in the presence
of John James White, the lieut. colonel, and James Low Warren, the surgeon of the said
regiment; and that so and by means of the said flogging the death of the said Frederick
25    John White was caused.’’ In returning this verdict, the jury cannot refrain from ex-
pressing their horror and disgust at the existence of any law amongst the statutes or
regulations of this realm which permits the revolting punishment of flogging to be
inflicted upon British soldiers; and at the same time the jury implore every man in the
kingdom to join hand and heart in forwarding petitions to the legislature, praying, in
30    the most urgent terms, for the abolition of every law, order, and regulation which
permits the disgraceful practice of flogging to remain one moment longer a slur upon
the humanity and fair name of the people of that country.
—The general and just indignation, caused by the new expose of the flogging
system, and the extent to which it is carried, (how far in our navy too!) has brought out
35    the following lines—a remonstrance assuming to be addressed from a soldier to the
Queen:
[Poem omitted—40 ll.]




40
September 5, 1846



Literary Notices


THE   STATESMEN  OF  THE   COMMONWEALTH OF  ENGLAND, with a treatise on the Popular
45	Progress in English history. By JOHN  FORSTER. Edited by J. O. Choules.—Harper
& Brothers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
No. 3 of this series contains the lives of John Hampden, Vane the younger, and
Henry Marten—names to make a man bethink him of great times and great deeds. We

  	53


believe that such a publication as this, is calculated to do serious good in lifting out the public mind from many errors and crude notions which have become engrafted upon it, in reference to an important era in English history—the Commonwealth. We have received with far too great allowance, the narratives of those who lived under the royal
rule,  immediately  afterward—tainted  with  the  poison  of  a  dissolute  court,  and	5 truckling  to  the  imperiousness  of  power. . . . . .  We  love  to  dwell  on  the  sturdy characters  of  the  Commonwealth—on  nearly  all  whose  history  is  given  in  this interesting series. They form the true sort of reading for us in this country: they have stamina and afford nutriment for wholesome thoughts.
10
FATHER DARCY: By the author of ‘Two Old Men’s Tales,’ ‘Mt. Sorel,’ ‘Emilia Wyndham,’
&c. Harpers, Cliff street.
An ample thickness of reading, for twenty-five cents! And if it be any thing
like ‘The Deformed,’ by the same author, it must be unsurpassed in interest. The
author has an elegant ease of style, and tells what he has to tell, always with polished  15
simplicity.





September 8, 1846

20
Mr. Bancroft


    The way in which a truly noble man is sometimes badgered and annoyed by the continued attacks of petty persecutors, is one of those strange sights that now and then turn up, to the disgrace of humanity! Mr. Bancroft, the present Secretary of the Navy,  25 has been made the mark for more opprobrium by the aristocratic cliques, (for we have such here—and more powerful are they than people imagine,) than even the President himself. The enemies of democracy, like death, ‘love a shining mark.’ Step by step, they followed Gen. Jackson in his bold progress of reform, with every missile that malice and deadly venom could furnish them. Step by step, they are following Mr. Bancroft—  30 and it is said that, broken in health, the Secretary of the Navy intends to give up his post. Whether he does so or not, his name and services in connection with his present station ought to be held in grateful remembrance by the people, of the U. S. for many a long year yet! He has dared to begin to apply—and even in that he has been bitterly resisted—the dictates of common sense in the management of the navy. The high  35 conservative spirit too long pervading that institution—the abominable favoritism— have been by him disregarded. Other Secretaries have not remained unaware of those evils; but they have not dared to grapple with them—for the evils were apparently a part of the system. Mr. Bancroft has dared to grapple with them—and for that we thank him. In the name of the common people, and of justice, and of the consistency of  40 our institutions, we thank him. And though the people, (who are proud of our ‘gallant’ navy, and care not enough to probe beneath the surface,) attend but rarely to the facts connected with the hitherto administration of the Navy, and the truckling of those who should have been its heads, to the officers—we feel every confidence that the more the public know, the wider and brighter will stand Mr. Bancroft’s fame, as the originator of  45 reform in the Navy. And as it is the high privilege of true reform, in this country, when once started to ‘press onward’ sooner or later to its full developement, we have every faith in the fruition of the seed this noble democrat has sown.
    
54	  




September 8, 1846


The Best Sort of Benevolence!


With no disposition to carp at the often truly noble motives and heroic disinter-
5    estedness which prompt the aid of ‘foreign missions,’ we yet transcribe the following
notions of the N. Y. Globe, and think them worth a slow reading: ‘‘It is very commend-
able in our fellow citizens, to pity and endeavor to instruct the poor heathen; but how
many there are who subscribe large sums for the civilization of savages in distant
lands, who would spurn from their presence a poor little barefooted boy, who, in the
10    month of January, might ask one of them for money enough to buy a pair of shoes
with! They do not reflect that they are surrounded by persons more miserable in point
of earthly comfort than any people of any heathen country on the globe. Hence they
heed not their sufferings.’’

15



September 8, 1846


[Lover]


20		Lover the novelist, who came over in the Britannia, is yet staying in N. Y. He should take quarters in Brooklyn; N. Y. is’nt good enough for such a clever fellow.





25    September 8, 1846


New Constitutions


    Missouri rejects her new constitution by a large majority. Was’nt it democratic enough—or how? Those western fellows generally possess the most ‘radical’ feeling in
30    such  matters. . . . . . . . . . . .  Wisconsin  is  just  holding  an  election  for  delegates  to form  a  new  constitution—in  the  making  of  which  she  seems  to  have  ‘bother ’ enough. . . . . . . . . . . . . And in our own New York, who will assume to say that the labors of the Convention at present in session in Albany will amt. to much in the end?

35



September 9, 1846


‘Real Cannon Balls’


40		It is undeniable that the attention of the public—a very large portion of it—is turning to a consideration of the benefits which the plan of direct taxation, for raising the governmental funds, has over the plan of tariffs and custom houses, with all the ponderous and complicated machinery of the latter.—We think it well that public attention  is  so  turned.  Truth  must  come  out  the  gainer,  in  all  discussions  and
45    reflections, on matters of this kind. . . . . . We may add that the fact of men’s minds looking that way is mainly attributable to the late furious tirades of the whigs against the new terrible ‘free trade’ tariff which only prohibits to the amt. of 30 per cent!—The whigs  thought  such  furious  tirades  would  soon  bring  profit  to  them—that  the

  	55


democratic captains would decline coming out plumply and plainly, in behalf of ‘free trade’—would quail at the cry of ‘protection to American labor,’ &c. The event proves, however, that the whigs reckoned without their host. Instead of retreating, we openly avow that we are not half done yet—that we will put down the tariff far lower than it is;—that we won’t promise, indeed, but that we will put it out of the way altogether, in	  5 due time. No wonder that the monopolists are alarmed, then! (‘‘Darn ’em!’’ said Jonathan, at the Battle of Bunker Hill, ‘‘Darn ’em! they’re shootin’ real cannon balls!’’ when one of the said balls passed through his hat.) No wonder that they wrestle with their own horror at such almost incredible and dangerous ‘loco focoism’! . . . . . . Why, dear fellows! you havn’t begun to see the ‘awful things’ we are going to do, yet!	10





September 9, 1846


15
We’ve Got As Much As We Owned, or the  Government Ever Asked For!


    The more facts that come to light in reference to the Oregon treaty, the more favorable appears that treaty to the United States—and the less ground for asserting  20 that we have compromised the least claim or right of the nation in settling it as it was settled.
[Summary and quotation omitted—41 1⁄2     ll.]

25



September 9, 1846


An Item for Protectionists


    The reduction of the tariff in Russia is looked upon in a different light from what it  30 is in America. A letter from St. Petersburg, under date of the 25th June, says: ‘The reduction of the tariff has been made, and is to take effect from the 18th inst. The proclamation of the Emperor says the reduction has been made in order to give activity
to foreign commerce and national industry.’
35




September 9, 1846


Orthodox but Sanguinary
40

    The last Rochester Advertiser contains an article on the other day’s difficulty at Auburn in reference to Wyatt’s body, after he was hung. The Adv. says of the throttled convict (and much more in the same strain) that

‘‘His body should have been buried like the carcase of a dog, far away from the honored dead, to  45 rest  in  peaceful  security,  forgotten  and  unknown.  The  excitement  and  ill-feeling  over  an abandoned wretch would then have been avoided, and the community in which the deed had been committed, remained peaceful and quiet.’’

56	  


    — It is orthodox enough to talk of the ferocity of the murderer, the black passions of criminals, and the malignant impulses of those who steal and stab. We all set down as a matter of course, that every body who is in prison is much wickeder in his heart than those who are out of prison. And yet it would be hard to find, we trow, a
5    bloodthirstier sentiment than that which could pursue the lifeless clay of a wicked but fellow creature, with such deadly scorn and hatred as is involved in the above extract toward the remains of the murderer, Wyatt! We say this not in anger, but in the profoundest sorrow. It is painful to know that intelligent and respectable men, living in the full light of the precepts and example of Christ, think it meet to promulgate such
10    sentiments. . . . . . There is little doubt but that Wyatt was a most abandoned young man. Humanity weeps at the recital of his numerous and gloomy crimes. But truth pauses to contemplate his nature—his furious physical passions, his early ignorance, depraved companionship, want of pure example, and the fatal fostering of the first seeds of sin in his breast till the roots became knit in his very life.—Now, too, the laws
15    have had vengeance, (for that’s the word,)—the man was duly choked to death.—Is not that enough? Will they pursue their bloody purpose so long as any vestige of his mortality remains? Will they bury his body ‘‘like the carcase of a dog’’? Ah, it is such a spirit as could ask for that, which encourages the commission of crime.—We do not mean to say that the writers of such wishes, or of bitter articles against convicts, wish to
20    encourage crime; but they do nevertheless.
— It is very likely that notions of the kind we are now giving utterance to, will be
scouted by not a few as puerile—as the fruit of ‘mawkish sympathy.’ This is the stale
cant of the day. It is considered a very manly thing to press with the most vengeful
ferocity every advantage which the arrayed potency of the law can give against one
25    frail quivering wretch—(it is somewhat new, however, to carry that ferocity out upon
the dead earth of his body!)—but your conservator of ‘justice’ feels it horrible and
blasphemous, and dangerous to the land, to utter one word of sympathy and pity for
him whom society has thrust out from it. Pah!

30



September 9, 1846


Petty Legal Outrage


35		We like our Yankee fellow countrymen for many things—but we don’t like ’em altogether. We don’t like ’em for permitting such a state of law and ‘things,’ as will allow the occurrence of the following petty piece of legal outrage and meanness, which we  find  recorded  in  the  Boston  Post:  ‘‘One  of  our  enlightened  justices,’’  it  says,
‘‘positively fined a poor laborer at South Boston five dollars, upon proof that the poor
40    man had a little potato patch in his hired yard, that he toiled every week day from day
light to eight o’clock for a bare subsistence, and one Sunday morning before meeting
hoed  his  little  potato  ground.  This  the  solemn  police  justice  gravely  pronounced
secular labor on the Lord’s day! But if a man worth a million had been arraigned for
rattling through the streets on Sunday, going to or returning from a railroad journey, or
45    if a ship were sent to sea on a Sabbath, the learned judges of the land would say it was
a  work  of  necessity  or  charity!  Verily,  the  law  too  often  straineth  at  a  gnat  and
swalloweth a camel.’’

  	57




September 9, 1846


The ‘‘Morning News’’


This democratic daily is dead. It died yesterday. It said nothing previously about
its own demise, and we therefore presume the death was an unexpected one. . . . . .	5
When the News was started under the management of Mr. O’Sullivan, it did well, and
exercised a very profitable influence not only in the city, but, through its weekly, in the
state—and to no small extent, through the United States. Mr. O’Sullivan worked very
hard for a while—but the monotonous drudgery of daily editorship soon pulled him
down, (how few there are, whom it does not!) and he was fain to slacken his toils. He  10
had drawn around him the more talented portion of the young democracy; but he
wanted  the  enthusiastic  earnestness  and  stamina—such  as  Leggett  had—without
which a man cannot retain the love and respect of that portion of ‘the party.’ It was but
a season, therefore, before the News and its conductor lost their foremost rank. . . . . . 
Since then, the News has ‘dragged its slow length along,’ in all kinds of ways—not  15
altogether, perhaps, without benefit to its party, but by no means realizing the high
grade of a leading democratic journal. It has had, indeed, some very able writing in its
columns, and we considered it by no means an ill-conducted news sheet. We are
sorry  to  know  its  failure—and  wish  all  future  good  fortune  to  the  gentlemen
connected with it.	20





September 11, 1846


Something for Ladies’ Reading	25


    A correspondent of Blackwood, in one of his sketches, says: ‘‘I saw the lady of the house; and much as I liked master, I don’t know but I like mistress more. Such a dear, kind-hearted creature, and so good-looking; one of the sort that would never look old,
or grow ugly, even if she lived to the age of Methuselah. And her fondness for her old  30 man is quite delightful. None of your ‘‘My dearing’’ or ‘‘my loving’’ nonsense, or anxiety about everything he likes to eat and drink disagreeing with him; but good, downright, honest, hearty affection, which was beautifully displayed in the happy smile with which she regarded the old fellow, and witnessed how truly he seemed to
be enjoying himself. That’s what I would recommend all wives to do, who wish to  35 preserve their good looks. Woman’s beauty depends so much upon expression, that, if that be spoiled, farewell to all her charms; and which nothing tends more to bring about than a countenance soured with imaginary cares, instead of being lighted up with  thankfulness  for  innumerable  blessings.  That’s  what  makes  half  the  women wither away into wrinkles so early in life, whilst nothing renders beauty so lasting as  40 that  placid  look  of  pure  benevolence,  which  emanates  from  the  heart  full  of thankfulness  to  God,  affection  for  those  nearest  and  dearest  to  it,  and  good-will towards all mankind!’’
    — Then there is that atrocious custom of the tight-lacing. Every medical authority will tell you that the dress has a great effect upon the body while growing; it ought to  45 be loose so that nature may model a form for herself. Take some of the eastern nations who wear their long and flowing robes, and you will find that they possess more
    
58	  


graceful forms than we do, who strap down, buckle, button and tie tight, as if to prevent our growing too large; and thus a warfare is kept up between nature and fashion; but alas! fashion is too often victorious, and confines her victim in the hospital, or lays him in the grave. At the present time this excess is carried to a more dangerous
5    extreme in the female dress. In tight-lacing, which is one of the most injurious things that can be done, the chest is often bound up. Those who are acquainted with the anatomy of this part of the body cannot but censure this practice. If we would but reflect, if we would look at the structure of these parts, and the work which they have to perform, we would no longer be the victims of tight-lacing. But perhaps you will
10    ask, how can this so seriously affect us? We all know that this part contains the lungs, two organs absolutely necessary for our health and life. The substance of the lungs is composed of innumerable air cells. They digest the air as the stomach digests the food, and as the digestion of food is designed to form the nutritive fluid, the blood, out of aliment received into the stomach, the digestion of air contributes to the same object,
15    the formation of blood. Thus the nutritive fluid is imperfect until it has been carried by the blood vessels through the lungs, and received the influence of respiration. In this way respiration is essential to the formation of blood which is the great excitant of our system, the fluid which keeps all the machinery of life in action, and which supplies the  materials  out  of  which  all  the  machinery  itself  is  manufactured.  It  is  readily
20    perceived that if this part is compressed, the very movements necessary to life are proportionably obstructed. When we know that this is so important, how can one refrain from giving free action to these parts and taking every opportunity to enlarge the chest by throwing it out? If women would do this they would not be troubled with many of the most fatal diseases which arise from the lungs and the throat. No longer
25    should we see so many becoming the victims of consumption, slowly but surely sinking into the grave, baffling the efforts of medical skill to save them. Many cases have occurred where persons have died with diseases of the lungs, when they have been found upon examination to be almost one solid mass; the ribs brought together so as nearly to overlap each other.
30




September 17, 1846

35


Authors

    It seems that American authors are not only to be kept out of their due by the denial of an international copyright law—but that they are to be fleeced finely! We should like to know what shadow of right Congress or any other power in this country has, to pass a law that the maker or owner of a book, (as much his sole and exclusive
40    property as the carpenter ’s wages, or the M.C.’s salary) shall give, without pay, a copy of his book to Congress, for the Smithsonian library! This law is an outrage and a meanness—and the utterers of it should be properly lashed by the press every where. It is not the price of the book—the half dollar or the one, two, or three dollars—but the principle of the thing.—That principle involves an unconstitutionality; and if it be
45    allowable in this instance, it may just as well be carried out into other things. Why should not every manufacturer of cottons be compelled to send a piece of each new pattern—of cloths, cassimeres, and fancy woolen goods, pieces of theirs—to a stated depot,  in  the  same  way?  The  principle  is  just  as  right,  in  that  method  of  its operation. . . . . . [Quotation omitted—33 1⁄2     ll.]

  	59




September 18, 1846


‘Foreign’ Prejudices


It is incalculable what a vast amount of prejudice towards the rest of the world—
and  toward  persons  and  doctrines—is  infused  into  the  American  mind  through	5
English writings, republished in this country! An American who loves his country
well, (and this by no means needs that he should dislike other countries) must always
be  deeply  pained  by  these  subtle  but  powerful  influences,  adverse  to  enlarged
freedom, and to liberal friendship on our part toward the nations and past great men
of Europe, which England has no friendship for. Getting our accounts of such nations  10
and men through English books, we receive their bigotries, and imbibe their hate. We
look, as it were, through their eyes. In America, at this moment, Napoleon is not half
justified, in  general  estimation.  Neither  do  we  half  the  time  do  justice  to  French
character, or to occurrences in France. We have adopted the miserable, rude, and
unjust style of representing every Frenchman, on the stage, as something, half monkey,  15
half man—a chattering, scraping creature, such as he is painted by British contempt
and malignance, to please the lowest passions of the lowest classes in England. And in
the ‘‘foreign news,’’ of our journals, the affairs of France are generally dismissed with a
dozen lines, while those of England occupy half as many columns.
It is natural that we should think more and oftener of England than any other  20
country on earth, after our own. This is reasonable; for English interests are deeply
involved with ours—the ‘‘fast anchored isle,’’ too, after the United States, has more of
freedom  and  toleration,  than  any  other  nation—and  we  are  generally  descended
directly or remotely from English ancestors. But it is folly of the worst and weakest
kind for us to adopt their hates, their spite toward foes who have beaten them, or their  25
scorn toward those they have beaten. We have quite enough national nonsense of our
own, without adding to them a sum of prejudice and nonsense incomparably greater
than ours, because it has been so much longer accumulating. Let us cultivate, also, a
higher and more dignified spirit of independence, showing itself in a calm inflexible
adherence to our own unwarped judgment of every thing, apart from the favor or disfavor  30
our decision receives from others.





September 18, 1846

35
‘Political Women’


Some wretch of a fellow sends us the following—why, we know not:

    Political Women, says Sue, always closely resemble one another. They are a babbling race, inspired with ambitious passions, as egotistical as men are, and gifted with none of the qualities  40 or graces of woman; sterility of mind, coldness, and feebleness of heart; severity of character, pretensions to wisdom ridiculously exaggerated, constitute their  characteristics. In a word, political women are a mixture of the schoolmaster and the stepmother, and, whether married or single, always resemble old maids.

— We publish the above, (which has very deservedly suffered impalement on our  45
‘hook’ for the last two weeks,) to say that it ain’t so. Women may take an interest in
politics—particularly  in  this  country,  without  compromising  their  ‘position’  as
women—unless they are so intemperate as to violate the rules of decorum which

60	  


apply alike to both sexes. It is not improper for a female to have a mind of her own (nor an absolute miracle either) and to express it. . . . . . As to the stale fling at ‘old maids,’ no man of sense but will scorn such sneers. ‘Old maids’ number among their kind, many of the best, noblest, truest-hearted women in the land. There is no greater
5    proportion of soured unmarried than of married women. And we must say that the fellow who deliberately utters a flippant sarcasm on a lady, (or her class) merely because she has no husband, achieves one of those petty pieces of meanness which hardly entitle the doer of them to be ‘writ down.’
We will confess, however, to a fondness for seeing, in all the developments of
10    thought and action, in woman, an infusion of mildness and of that spirit which ‘‘falleth
as the gentle dew from heaven.’’ Hear what one of the truthfulest German poets says
of woman:

Her  might is gentleness—she winneth sway
By  a soft word, and a softer look.
15	Where she, the gentle loving one hath  failed, The proud or stern might never  yet succeed. Strength, power, and  majesty  belong to man;
They  make the glory native to his  life; But sweetness is a woman’s  attribute—
20	By  that she has reigned, by that will reign.
There have been some who with a mightier mind
Have  won dominion, but they never won
The  dearer empire of the beautiful;
Sweetest  sovereign of their natural loveliness.
25




September 19, 1846

30


Vocal Concerts, by Children

    We like these children’s concerts, that are becoming popular of late, and would encourage their frequent repetition. To spread a capacity and fondness for music among the masses, were to refine and polish them in the truest sense. Indeed, we think there is a real national taste for the ‘‘concord of sweet sounds,’’ in America, equal
35    intrinsically to that which has long marked the land of sunny skies. Of course it is yet crude and uncultivated, but the soul of it is there, and only needs due fostering to be brought out. . . . . . It were well if music were made a regular branch of study in all our common schools. The meliorating influence of such a practice on the minds and habits of youth is beyond dispute—and indeed, with the exception of New York, nearly all
40    the schools of the land do sing.





September 19, 1846
45


School Officers’ Duties


    The Board of Education in this county, hold an indirect influence over human honor and happiness which we dare venture to affirm their electors, and perhaps they themselves, do not half realize.—Several thousand youth are educated in the Free
    
  	61


Seminaries of this county. What calculation can there be of the vastness of the results capable  of  being  brought  to  bear  on  these  young  men  and  women?  What  mere estimate of pecuniary profit or loss will apply to the case of thousands of intelligent American intellects? . . . . . . . . . . . . Of the many subjects that might, in this connec- tion, be expatiated on, we shall at present only mention one—the practice of whipping in	5 schools. We beg to suggest to the Board of Education an inquiry into the propriety of entirely depriving the teachers of the power of inflicting this sort of punishment. We
are aware that precedent and no small number of respectable persons are in favor of the whip in schools—and that its abrogation will be strenuously opposed. When men come  to consider, however, that all reforms for the last three hundred years, have  10 invariably had similar precedent and similar opposition against them, such objections may lose much of their weight. In some of the Public Schools the ferule and ratan are used to an extent really shocking. We know this, and give it as no mere gossip.
It would be a great and much needed reform in schools, if the spirit of kindness
and a wholesome emulation were more generally diffused—and greater trouble taken  15
to make the place of study—and study itself—agreeable to the young. Now, both are
an irksome terror—and as long as the power of cutting and lashing remains, they will
continue so. What need is there of goading youth to the performance of that which its
own prying and feverishly active nature, if discreetly directed by a teacher worthy the
name, will do so much quicker and better and more agreeably? We earnestly call on  20
our school officers to at least make inquiry on this subject of whipping. Let us see if—
while in the management and punishment of the wickedest criminals, public senti-
ment demands the abolition of the lash—it must still hold its livid rule over the
young—the pliant affectionate creatures that the Sacred Master of our religion likened
to the kingdom of heaven itself.	25





September 21, 1846


City Intelligence	30
What’s the Matter with the Lamps?


    For several evenings past the street lamps in the first and third wards, and we don’t know but the whole city, have exhibited a very deplorable appearance. Two- thirds appear to have been hidden under a bushel, and the remainder are as brilliant  35 as a ‘‘lightning bug.’’ This has been a subject of very considerable complaint; and the
city officer whose duty it is to see to these things must perform his duty better. Why only a part of the lamps are lighted, and that but dimly, is past conjecture. Last evening at ten o’clock, Hicks, Henry, Fulton, and the streets which cross them, looked more like
subterranean passages than civilized thoroughfares. The ground of this complaint  40
must be removed, or there will be difficulty somewhere.





September 22, 1846

45
The Pen


‘‘Within the hands of men entirely great,’’ said Forrest in his character of Cardinal
Richelieu at the Park theatre, last night, ‘‘the pen is mightier than the sword!’’ This is

62	  


a great truth, well expressed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The ages of steel and of contending armies, and the smoke of battle, and the neighing of the war-horse, have passed away.—Knights go forth no more, clad in brazen armor, to redress the wrongs of the injured and the weak.—Barons, with their long trains of esquires and men-at-
5    arms, no more are seen abroad in search of opportunities to show their valor and gain booty. The time of the fluttering of pennants in the breeze, while, ‘‘ladies faire’’ look down  upon  a  sort  of  feudal  boxing  match,  is  also  departed.  And  we  are  the gainers. . . . . . . . . . . . Where is, at this moment, the great medium or exponent of power, through which the civilized world is governed? Neither in the tactics or at the
10    desks of statesmen, or in those engines of physical terror and force wherewith the game of war is now played. The pen is that medium of power—a little crispy goose quill, which, though its point can hardly pierce your sleeve of broadcloth, is able to make gaping wounds in mighty empires—to put the power of kings in jeopardy, or even chop off their heads—to sway the energy and will of congregated masses of men,
15   as the huge winds roll the waves of the sea, lashing them to fury, and hurling destruction on every side! At this hour in some part of the earth, it may be that the delicate scraping of a pen over paper, like the nibbling of little mice, is at work which shall show its results sooner or later in the convulsion of the social or political world. Amid penury and destitution, unknown and unnoticed, a man may be toiling on to the
20    completion of a book destined to gain acclamations, reiterated again and again, from admiring America and astonished Europe! Such is the way, and such the magic of the pen. Quiet and without ostentation in the method of its workings, but as lasting as the eternal rocks, and existing in its results when the fingers that moved it have withered to dust, and been forgotten for ages.
25		The season of contending armies, and of tournaments, we have said, is among things of the bygone. But the wrongs of nations, and the quarrels of injured weakness, are not without their champions. And though that champion be never called on to do battle with lance or broadsword, he can defend the right as well, and gain a victory as surely, as could the bravest noble of Cœur de Lion, or the closest copy of him ‘‘without
30    fear and without reproach.’’ The proud oppressor, lording it over helpless worth, is made to tremble and turn pale when the pen holds up his atrocity to an indignant people. Cunning hypocrisy, its motives dark as its conduct, when exposed in all the horrors of vividly painted vice by the pen, writhes and twists in more than its merited agony. The sly rogue and the profligate with brazen hard face—the betrayer of his
35  trust, and the wily seducer—the monarch on the throne, and the unprincipled legislator—the heartless parent and the unthankful child—the tyrannical captain of a crew, and the brutal whipper of a slave, all bend beneath the whirlwind of its wrath, and know its power to punish wickedness! None are so high that it dare not boldly confront them and pull them down. None are so low but it may perceive their vileness,
40    and toss them aloft, high in the gaze of the multitude, and, as they fall, trample upon them like the enraged elephant, until justice is satisfied.





45    September 22, 1846


[Washington Irving]


    WASHINGTON IRVING reached N. Y. city last Friday evening, and, on the following morning, proceeded to his residence at Tarrytown.
    
  	63




September 23, 1846


Gayety of Americans


    The  passed  morning,  (23d)  has  been  very  beautiful.  The  sun  rose  clear  and cloudless—the air is fresh and just warm enough to be without chilliness. And though	5 the streets in Brooklyn are tolerably, and in the great Babel over the river superlatively, covered with dirt, there is somehow or other no dust to annoy eyes or mouth, this morning. . . . . . . . . . . . We had occasion to pass through Broadway, in N. Y.; and never have we seen that famed thoroughfare present a brighter aspect. Walking there,
if we had been asked to mention the particular characteristic which would in all  10 probability first impress a stranger visiting New York, we should reply that it was a gay activity. This is surely the most striking feature of the population. We have often wondered, of a bright morning, how every body could dress so well, and where on earth they could find business enough to employ them, and make it necessary for them
to hurry along at that helter-skelter pace.	15
We are not sure but it is unjust to this country after all, to attribute the want of
‘fun’ to it, which most European travellers attribute. Go through the streets, and see for
yourself,  almost  any  where,  in  pleasant  weather,  particularly  at  the  beginning  of
‘business  hours.’  For  the  early  time  of  the  day,  there  is,  too,  an  aspect  of  youth
impressed upon N. York. Two thirds of the persons you meet in the street are young  20
men or boys nearly grown—clerks, apprentices, office-boys, and so on. These with
their bright faces, and their exact attire, form by no means the least agreeable part of
the scene. Dull and torpid must that man be who can walk any distance in the streets of
the metropolis, of a morning, and not become imbued with the cheerfulness so evident
everywhere around. The capital of France is a gay city—but the gayety we speak of is  25
quite different from the flippant gayety of the Parisian population. Theirs is a spirit
which seems to partake of the thoughtlessness of the savage—a disposition to enjoy
to-day, and take no care for to-morrow. Ours, we think, is more the disposition to make
business a pleasure—to work, but to work with smiles and a bright heart. Theirs is a
repast, all flowers and fine dishes, but with little for the appetite; ours forgets not the  30
ornamental part of the feast, but retains the solid, too.
It is somewhat singular that few or none of the travellers in America have noticed
these truths—or rather that none have noticed all the truth—for they have generally
given us quite credit enough, and too much, for application to business, and little, or
none at all, for enjoyment. The mistake is, probably, that they find few idle pleasures  35
popular in America. There is undoubtedly here a great—a very much too great—
eagerness  for  wealth,  and  a  forgetfulness,  in  feverish  speculation,  of  the  humble
philosophy of living while we live; but at the same time there is a powerful current of
smiles and liveliness running through the national character, and developing itself, so
far, in the way we have mentioned. . . . . . What can afford a livelier spectacle for  40
instance,  than  the  lower  part  of  Fulton  street,  or  of  Atlantic  st.,  Brooklyn—than
Broadway, the Bowery, Grand street, Canal street, and nearly all of the large N. Y.
thoroughfares, on a fine morning or afternoon? Of course, many of the persons who
look so gay there have their own special troubles and cares, no doubt, as it is the lot of
all mortality to have. But, for the hour, they have forgotten them. Sunshine of the mind  45
beams over their faces, and they find relief in the excitement of so much bustle and
noise—the spectacle of so much fashion and beauty. And, indeed, all through the day,
in almost all parts of New York, this activity never flags. Surely there can be no town
on earth that has less of a sleepy look than that. It is always ‘‘wide awake,’’ and the

64	  


throbbings of its pulse beat forever. . . . . . We commend this spirit, for we commend whatever is opposed to idleness and melancholy. Life is short enough to make the most active hands, joined with the quickest brain, slow to do what ought to be done—and dark enough to render all that throws sunshine around us welcome indeed. We might,
5    perhaps, if we tried, offer some suggestions of improvement; but to tell the truth, we are not among those who prefer to dwell on the deficiencies of a community, than on its merits; and we are quite satisfied with Brooklyn and New York character as it is— confident that though it might be better, there are hardly two cities elsewhere, take them all in all, in which it is as well.
10




September 23, 1846

15


Old World Poor

    Though this republic is not without its scenes of poverty, we know little of the depths of destitution and guilt which prevail in many parts of the Old World. . . . . . There are in the city of London about two hundred and thirty thousand beggars, thieves, pickpockets, and vagrants. What a vast array of human beings are here plunged
20    in vice, crime, poverty, and degradation! In Paris there is in comparison nearly an equal amount of misery and depravity. In some of the wards where the poor reside, out of every twelve children born, eleven die the first year. In Sicily, an island so highly favored by soil, climate, and position, the condition of the people is frightful. Count Gasparin, Peer of France, in speaking of the state of its agriculture, and the poverty of the
25    peasantry, says: ‘‘When the crops are bad, or the prices of grain are low, so that the landholders require less labor, then the misery of the country becomes intense: without means of subsistence for the winter, it is not a rare thing to find peasants starved to death in the  fields with  grass  in  their  mouths,  from  which  they  have  vainly  endeavored  to  draw nourishment.’’ In Ireland, out of a population of eight millions, every third person
30    experiences, during thirty weeks in the year, a deficiency of even third-rate potatos.





September 24, 1846
35


The Literary World


HOUSTON  AND HIS  REPUBLIC. B. C. Edwards Lester. N. Y.; Burgess, Stringer & Co., 222
Broadway corner of Ann st.
We have not yet read this work with that minute attention and thought which it
40    deserves. It deserves them, because it is a book that involves the philosophy of a
character peculiar to this age, and which could hardly have operated in any other; it
also involves a movement peculiar to this age—viz. the severing of the bands of
government of a great state, under one form, and uniting it under another, solely by
the ‘will of the people’—a movement that must stand immediately after our Revolu-
45    tion of ’76. . . . . . . The men and acts and facts of which ‘Houston and his Republic’
treats are still to be seen and in a vivid sort realized by us of the contemporary time.
And in this respect contemporary description of such things has a great advantage

  	65


over that of a long subsequent time—notwithstanding the old proverb, that a man cannot be judged truly till he be dead. ‘All hands’—the philosopher, statesman, student of history, morals or men—will find profitable food in this book. . . . . . It is, in its typographical getting up, of a sort which strikes us as peculiarly worthy of praise.
The type is large, and well spaced out, the paper white and thick, and the whole	5
appearance especially neat.






September 25, 1846

10
Something Like a Reform!


    The Alb. Atlas of last evening, (24th) gives in full the two grand Articles ‘‘On the existing debts and liabilities of the State, and to provide for the payment thereof,’’ and
15
‘‘On the power to create future State debts and liabilities, and in restraint thereof,’’
which  passed  the  State  Convention  the  previous  day.  Only  their  extreme  length
prevents our publishing them in full. They provide for the certain and definite extin-
guishment of the debt of the state, by the payment thereof from the revenues of the
canals; they place this beyond doubt or contingency; they provide against the abuse of
20
the public credit through loans to railroads, &c.; they place valuable safeguards against
the  legislative  power  of  appropriation;  and  they  provide,  by  the  adoption  of  the
People’s Resolution in its most stringent form, against the future creation of a state
debt, without the direct and concurrent agency of the electors of the state, and of their
representatives in the legislature, and against the recurrence of any project of debt
25
which shall not be accompanied by provisions for its own extinguishment.
[Quotation omitted—31 1⁄4     ll.]



30

September 25, 1846
Our Fortune under Our Own Control

    It is an incontrovertible fact that most of the evils under which individuals or  35 communities labor, result from their own careless obstinacy, or wilful wickedness. We would do well to keep this fact oftener in view, and not saddle our calamities upon chance, or ‘‘ill luck.’’ True, there are some cases wherein no human foresight can be of avail—where no evil has been committed by the sufferer, to provoke what he suffers.
But these are comparatively rare. If a man has been industrious and prudent, he will  40 become independent and supplied with the means of happiness. If he chooses to idle away his time, or run the risk of vague speculation, ten to one but poverty sooner or later overtakes him. Does he give full swing to gross passion? Illness weakens his body and  withers his mind. On the other hand, if he is temperate and duly careful, the results will be sound health, and even temper. So we see how foolish is the bewailing  45 of ‘‘the miserable destiny of man.’’ We, ourselves, bring our destiny upon us, for good
or for evil, and we alone are the main cause of the effect.

66	  




September 25, 1846


Minor Moralities


Foreigners, travelling among us, have frequently thought proper to attack the
5    American people for their lack of what may be called the minor moralities of life. Thus
we see some horrified at the practice of spitting—some indignant at the scarcity of
towels—others denouncing rapid mastication—and so on. In this way we have ‘‘all
our faults observed, set in a note book,’’ and spread before the European reader as a
conclusive argument against democratic institutions. And Boz writes about the pigs in
10    Broadway, and Mrs. Trollope writes about the pigs of Cincinnati. Now, it really is
disgusting to see a person spitting right and left, without any regard to decency, or the
cleanliness  of  his  neighbor ’s  apparel!  Indeed,  we  might  mention  a  long  list  of
defections of this sort, and expatiate with more or less severity upon them. . . . . . We
‘‘acknowledge the corn.’’ But let us look a step farther. Let us imagine any civilized
15    kingdom  of  Europe  changed  to  a  republic—the  people  made  equal—the  masses
elevated to the same grade with the nobility, and the nobility depressed to the masses.
Let us suppose France, for instance. Who would not be shocked at the stupidity, the
indecency, the total absence of all polish, which would then prevail? In the distant
provinces of France, (for Paris is not France, though often called so,) the masses do not
20    read or write; they are but little removed from the more sagacious brutes. And not
dissimilar would be the result of the same rule applied to England, Germany or Spain.
And shall a person come among us, and from the solid masses, the aggregate body of
the American people, take out here and there a few violators of trivial etiquette, as a
sample of America? The faults of the people here are exceptions to the general rule. In
25    Europe, refinement is the exception. We speak advisedly. There is in us none of the
bombastic vanity which loves to depreciate every thing not American, and parade
with great praise all our peculiarities. . . . . . The simple test of comparison we have
given is as fair in other things. We have been denounced (and not undeservedly) for
repudiation; but, let the masses in any European kingdom have the power of deciding
30    on payment in similar cases, and who imagines that they would ‘‘pony up?’’ There is
food for reflection in these lines.





35    September 25, 1846


Petty Criticism


    There is a great deal of small potato criticism in the newspapers of New York.—It shows itself in all the departments of literature and art. How often have we seen a new
40    book, well written and quite original, passed by with silence, or damned with faint praise; while tinsel and vapid nonsense has been puffed by the efforts of friends into public notice! . . . . . . . . . . . . They want in N. York some periodical of more compre- hensive and critical ability than any that as yet exist in this country. Much is said about the profusion of cheap literature, and its injurious effects on popular taste.—But there
45    is really no harm in books being cheap, if they are good. A high-toned critical authority would do much to root out trashy literature.

  	67




September 26, 1846


The Literary World


ALTOWAN; OR   INCIDENTS  OF  LIFE   AND  ADVENTURE  IN  THE   ROCKY  MOUNTAINS. By an Amateur  Traveller.—Edited  by  James  Watson  Webb.  2  vols.  8  vo.  Harpers,	5 publishers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
    The editor claims for this work that it ‘‘will be found, on perusal, one of the very few which exhibits the native of our forests as he was, and still is, where he roams uncontaminated by his intercourse with civilized man, the boundless regions of the Northwest.’’ . . . . . . The author—according to Col. Webb’s prefatory remarks—of  10
‘Altowan’ is an English gentleman of rank and wealth, with whom the Col. formed an acquaintance while the Englishman was an officer in the army, on absence. The work was originally written with an idea adverse to publication; but we are glad that idea was abandoned—for every book which truly contributes, as this does, to an authentic knowledge of the life, manners and peculiarities of the Great Aboriginal Race now  15 passing  slowly  but  surely  away,  is  a  precious  thing  in  American  literature.  ‘‘The sketches of Indian life, and the incidents of the chase, which it contains, are taken from
life, and the descriptions of the regions where the scene is laid in the western wilds, are drawn from nature.’’ . . . . . . The book is superbly printed.
20
LECTURES  TO  WOMEN, ON   ANATOMY  AND PHYSIOLOGY; WITH  AN  APPENDIX ON  WATER
CURE.  By Mary S. Gove. Harpers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
As respects physiological truths, the sentiment of the intelligent world is now
pretty well settled down to the conviction that the more and wider those truths are
known, the better. A mistaken belief, indeed, has that been which depended on, and  25
encouraged, ignorance of the real in human physiology, from what is in fact a morbid
and dangerous squeamishness. And though this book of Mrs. Gove’s appears to be
guarded against offending even that sort of squeamishness, we cannot refrain from
speaking a sort of last word against the mistaken ‘delicacy’ in question. . . . . . . . Mrs.
Gove has much to say of the ‘Water Cure,’ of the efficacy of which she seems to be  30
convinced. The particular points dwelt on in the body of the work are circulation,
respiration, and ventilation—anatomy and physiology of the stomach—dietetics—the
nervous system—diseases of the spine—education—&c. &c. On two of these subjects
we shall make extracts for our readers at an early day. . . . . The book is well printed
and neatly bound.	35




September 28, 1846
40
Claims of the Democratic Party at the Next Election

    The whole course pursued by Silas Wright (for we suppose as a matter of course he will be nominated at the Gubernatorial convention)—the acknowledged endorse- ment of him and his acts by the democracy of the state—the decided stand taken on  45 the subject in the Democratic State Convention now in session at Albany—all join in
    
68	  


settling the fact that the Democratic ticket at the ensuing election in this state, is the ticket whose success will involve the principles of economy in the government, of rigid caution in outlays, of prompt payment of state dues, of a high-toned sustaining of credit, of no borrow- ing of money, or lending it to special purposes. These assumptions are justified by facts
5    which any man can see for himself. The well-known repugnance of Gov. Wright to run the state in debt for any thing, is one fact. He is almost the only man we have ever had for Governor, who was not willing to swim with a temporary and local wish for an
‘improvement’—even at the expense of saddling it directly or indirectly on the people. We need such a man most especially at this time; for at this time, we take it, we are
10    as a state going through the change, (never, we hope to return to the old plan again, when once out of it) from identifying the state’s money and security with local speculations—to a stern holding aloof from such things, and an exclusive application of the people’s funds to state expenses.
The Democratic party, then, come before the people, at the present time, as the
15    party of economy, of debt-paying, and no debt-contracting for the future. As an offset
to those principles, the Whigs are known to be (so, from their very nature, indeed) the
friends of ‘liberal’ outlays, ready to assist with the public money sectional speculations,
and in favor not only of manufacturing ‘plenty of money,’ but of lending the people’s
credit to corporations and companies. . . . . . . . . . . The state will have the two sets of
20    principles arrayed before it, like dishes at a feast.—We shall soon see which they will
choose.





25
September 28, 1846



Health


We make the following extracts from Mrs. Gove’s lately published Lectures on
Physiology. Though they present nothing particularly new—for the simple laws of
30
health have been known from ‘time immemorial’—we dare venture to affirm that the
rules they involve, (unquestionably true as they are,) are hardly obeyed by one out of
twenty persons! [Extracts omitted—63 1⁄2     ll.]


35



September 29, 1846


[A Fine Lyric]


40		We know hardly a finer lyric in the language than the following. Its measure is solemn, stately, and massive—fit for the stupendous deed and great moral which it commemorates. The verses are polished to the highest point of completeness—leaving not a redundant word, nor any one wanting. When we add that this most artistical poem has, as far as we know, appeared but once before in print, (not being copied then,
45    which was four years ago,) the appreciative reader will hardly fail to be amazed:
Ed.B.Eagle.

  	69


THE     MARTYR   OF   THE   ARENA
Honored be the hero evermore
Who  at Mercy’s call has nobly died!
Echoed  be his name from shore to shore
With immortal chronicles allied!	5
Hast  thou heard in Rome’s declining  day How a youth, by Christian zeal  impelled, Swept the sanguinary games  away
Which  the Coliseum once beheld?
Filled  with gazing thousands were the tiers—	10
With the city’s chivalry and pride—
When  two gladiators with their spears
Forward sprang from the arena’s side.
Rang  the dome with plaudits loud and long
As  with shields advanced the athletes stood;	15
Was there no one in that eager throng
To denounce the spectacle of blood?
Aye! Telemachus, with swelling frame,
Saw  th’ inhuman sport renewed once more:
Few  among the crowd could tell his name,	20
For a Cross was all the badge he wore.
Yet, with brow elate and godlike mien, Stepped he forth upon the circling  sand; And, while all were wond’ring at  the scene,
Checked  th’ encounter with a daring hand.	25
‘‘Romans!’’ cried he—‘‘Let this reeking  sod Never more with human blood be  stained! Let no image of the living God
In  unhallowed combat be profaned!
‘‘Ah! too long has this colossal dome	30
Failed  to sink and hide your brutal shows!
Here I call upon assembled Rome
Now  to swear they shall for ever close!’’
Parted  thus, the combatants, with joy,
’Mid the tumult, found the means to fly;	35
In  th’ arena stood th’ undaunted boy,
And,  with looks adoring, gazed on high.
Pealed  the shout of wrath on ev’ry  side; Ev’ry hand was eager to  assail!
‘‘Slay him! slay!’’ a hundred voices cried,	40
Wild with fury,—but he did not quail!
Hears  he, as entranced he looks  above, Strains celestial, that the  menace drown? Sees he angels, with  their eyes of love,
Beck’ning to him, with a martyr ’s crown?	45

70	  


Fiercer  swelled the people’s frantic shout! Launched against him flew the stones like rain! Death and terror circled him about,—
But  he stood and perished—not in vain!
5	Not  in vain the youthful martyr fell;
Then  and there he crushed a bloody creed!
And  his high example shall impel
Future heroes to as great a deed.
Stony  answers yet remain for those
10		Who  would question and precede the  time; In their season, may they meet  their foes,
Like  Telemachus, with front sublime!
Epes  Sargent.


15



September 29, 1846


20



American Editing and Editors

    It is a singular fact that while the people of the United States are a newspaper-ruled people, we have in reality few, we may almost say no, newspapers that approach even in the neighborhood of perfect specimens of their kind. We have little fine, hearty, truthful writing in our papers. We have, (it must be from want of public encourage-
25    ment,) little high-toned gentlemanliness or elegance—little politeness, even. Perhaps, however, the want of the refinements of writing in our daily prints is not so strange as the want of depth, force, power, and solidity. The American people are intellectual in a high degree—their brains are clear, and their penetration eagle-eyed. Why then, does not the press which asks their ‘patronage’ present something like the food we might
30    reasonably suppose would be craved by such a mental appetite as comes from a healthy intellectual digestion? Why are our editors so flippant, so superficial, so vague and verbose? Why do they so rarely bring what they write to bear on the light of great principles and truths? The answer to such inquiries we give in the words of one whose name we cannot state—but whose opinions show him to be a person well aware of the
35    evil, and of how it ought to be remedied: ‘‘It is because so low a standard has been established in regard to the efforts of editors, that so few men of the strongest intellect and character have desired it,—that they have sought distinction in other vocations, less influential, but supposed to be more honorable. It is because society has not required more, that more has not been done. Its treatment of journalists has been
40    singularly unhappy. They are what it has made them; they fall short of the lofty dignity of their station, because society has fallen short in its demands. Johnson, in his prologue, says ‘that those who live to please, must please to live.’ This has unfortu- nately been the case with the press. It has been regarded as a mere agent for pleasing society, and therefore it has aspired to no higher function. It has failed to perceive its
45    real nature; it has failed in asserting its claims; it has failed in discharging its duties as an instructer; it has failed in becoming the moral power of tremendous force of which it is capable. But its conductors are not so much to blame for this, as its patrons, as

  	71


they are called, the public. True, it has been courted by some, and feared by others— courted by the ambitious and feared by the timid: yet, while courted and feared, it has been  neglected  and  despised.  Very  little  discrimination  has  marked  the  public judgment of its character. So long as it could be made to administer to prevailing prejudices, so long as it could be turned to the purposes of party, so long as it lent itself	5 to the cause of demagogues, so long and no longer has it met with favor. Discerning, genuine, and hearty approbation for independence, integrity, and talent, it has seldom received. A sort of double and inconsistent conduct has been expected of editors. While they have been solicited to furnish aid to all kinds of partial schemes, they have been blamed for a want of fidelity to principle; while the whole strength of immense  10 parties is brought to bear upon them to secure their aid or crush their opposition, they have been derided for suppleness of purpose and pliancy of doctrine; while every man who has an object to accomplish, besets them with seductions, and promises of reward, they have been scorned for venality and time-serving. A high, unvarying moral test
has never been applied to them. When a man of lofty faith and stern virtue has arisen  15
among them, when he has manifested a disposition to discuss questions in the light
of great principles, when he has refused to listen to the whispers or move at the beck of
cliques and factions, when he has regarded politics as the most important aspect of
morals, and sought to acquit himself of the duties of his calling, with a nice regard to
truth and conscience, how has he been received by the community? As a worthy,  20
noble, fearless man? As a patriot who deserved well of his country? As a Christian
filled with a strong sense of the responsibilities of human existence? Far otherwise.
Hostility and contempt often have been his sole rewards. His professed friends have
dropped away from him; his enemies have redoubled and sharpened their abuse; a
strong public opinion is aroused against him; and the end of it is, that he is compelled,  25
from the want of support, to relinquish his pursuit, and seek in some other less
congenial employment, the means of subsistence and profit. Can we forget the career
of the lamented Leggett? There was a man, who, during one of the most excited and
interesting  periods  of  our  political  experience,  pursued  a  line  of  determined  and
intrepid honesty. A course of corrupt legislation, openly defended by one party, and  30
connived at by a large portion of the other, had fastened upon the people a system of
finance and banking, which was fast destroying their liberties and morals. The firm old
soldier-statesman, who was then the President, more sagacious than many of his
supporters, more honest than any of his opponents, had given the first blow in a work
of revolution. After a long and desperate contest, he succeeded. Yet it was only a  35
partial success. Mr. Leggett, who had stood side by side with him in the trying position
of the fight, saw, even in the moment of victory, that the triumph was not completely
achieved.  The  enemy,  who  had  been  overcome  by  the  energies  of  the  General
Government,  was  acting  in  his  strength  under  the  protection  of  nearly  all  the
individual States. That enemy, he conceived, was to be attacked in his strong-holds  40
there; instant to his convictions of duty, he began a vigorous assault; neither timidity
on one hand, nor persecution on the other, could induce him to soften his ponderous
blows; day after day, he aroused the public mind with discussions full of strong
thought and eloquent invective. ‘I cannot,’ said he, ‘for the sake of a livelihood, trim
my sails to suit the varying breeze of popular prejudice.’ ‘With old Andrew Marvell,’  45
he continued, ‘I prefer to scrape a blade-bone of cold mutton in defence of truth, to
faring sumptuously at the cost of principle.’ And what was the result? Desertion and

72	  


poverty for the time—to be followed, when he should be cold in his grave, with monumental honors and heartfelt eulogy.




5
September 30, 1846



The ‘Irish,’ &c.


In a Philadelphia letter, about the causes of Philadelphia riots, the Boston Evening
10    Traveller, among others gives this:

‘‘The introduction of a foreign population, unaccustomed to liberty regulated by law. The notion of liberty formed by these men is to do as they please.’’

The same sentiment, bearing on other places and in different ways, is by no means
15    uncommon. We think it very unjust to the adopted citizens of this country; and not
only unjust, but so plainly in contradiction to facts that any man who will take the
trouble to reflect a moment, and recall facts, will be convinced of its injustice. (We do
not express these opinions at length, so much from a desire to reply to the few lines of
the extract—but to condemn the sentiment of which they are an emanation.) He will be
20    convinced that the ‘Irish’—who seem to be, by some, the especial points of scorn and
attack—have in singularly few instances, (we can call to mind none,) begun a row with
their ‘opponents,’—have every where infused into the elements of our national charac-
ter singularly little bad, to counterbalance the acknowledged good they have done. . . . 
A word, too, as to this high tone of superciliousness used toward the thousands who
25    come here from the Old World, with little wealth of money, but the far more precious,
and far more needed here, wealth of sinewy arms, stout hearts, and an energetic will to
develope the capacities that lie dormant in America for the increase of individual
comfort. It appears to be thought by many that the receiving of foreigners under any
circumstances in  the  United  States,  is  a  gracious  boon for  which  they  should  be
30    becomingly thankful, and not complain if they get a little kicking and cuffing besides.
We are doubtful on this opinion. After the cross-bows of the Norman archers were
triumphant over the English bills, and William the Conqueror pressed the throne of the
slain Harold, we opine no man could have been called a trespasser had he come from
some  distant  land,  and  competed  with  the  new  fledged  monarch.—Though  our
35    American title here is, perhaps, better than was that of William to his island-sceptre,
yet we are not entrenched strong enough in the justice of the claim to turn up our noses
at every new comer, every ‘‘pestilential arrival,’’ as a late Whig print terms it. Are our
broad lands in the west intended by the Maker of the earth exclusively for the twenty
millions of people in our borders, when there is enough for more than three hundred
40    millions?
Nor would it be amiss to dwell on the assistance the American arms derived in the
struggle for independence, from other than ‘native’ sources. We have heard a story
somewhere of a British lawyer, who jibingly asked an American acquaintance where
was his country’s title to her territory. The republican, at the earliest chance, sent his
45    friend a history of our revolutionary war. The answer was a good one. Now, in the
forces under Washington during the contest, there were sixteen thousand Irish troops;
so asserts a good authority. Montgomery, Sullivan, Griffin, and Butler, officers of high

  	73


grade in the army, were Irishmen by birth. So was Barry, who has been called the father of the American navy. So was Charles Thompson, as pure a patriot as ever lived. Jefferson attributes to the brave exploits of Stark and his Irish volunteers in Vermont that train of causes which ended in the capture of Burgoyne. Patrick Henry was the son
of Irish parents, and it is well known who Andrew Jackson’s ancestors were. During	5
the revolution incessant meetings in Ireland to encourage and aid America, provoked
the direct anger of the British government, and led to some of those acts of tyranny
which caused the Irish rebellion in 1799. When Boston was besieged by the American
forces, and occupied by the British, the Irish Benevolent Society there dauntlessly
enacted the strongest resolutions to hold fast to the cause of America to the very last.  10
Nor during the last war with England was the Emerald Isle without her witnesses on
our side. McKeon, McDonagh, and Croghan, were all of them Irishmen. Three of the
high officers in the army which routed Packenham at New Orleans, were Irishmen—
Coffin, Carrol and Reynolds. The valiant Porter was a Irishman’s son.
It is rather too bad, then, that a class of men who did their devoir in the very outset  15
of our national existence—and have signalized themselves since as good citizens,
obedient  to  the  laws,  and  hard-working,  industrious  operatives—should  still  be
subjected to these flings from people who ought to know and do better.

20



September 30, 1846


The Literary World


THE    COUNT   OF   MONTE-CHRISTO. By  Alexander  Dumas.  With  elegant  illustrations.   25
Burgess, Stringer & Co., 222 Broadway, N. Y.
Sparkling in quality and plentiful in quantity appears to be this work—appears, for
we confess to not having read it. There are certainly, however, a pleasant gracefulness
and vivacity in Dumas’ writings—that we can say from our knowledge of his former
works. His pages are mostly full of interest and stir, and amid all his lightness, the  30
penetrating eye can generally draw a profitable moral. The pictures in the ‘Count of
Monte-Christo’ are by Mr. Valentine. The general typographical execution is neat.





September 30, 1846

35

Mrs. Mowatt


Played Bianca in the highly-wrought tragedy of Fazio last night, with great power and expressiveness. The last two acts, in particular, were made almost painful by the  40 intense passion of the distracted wife—her wild struggles to save the husband she herself  had  condemned—and  her  deranged  appearance  in  the  banquet  room  of Aldabella. . . . . . . . . . . .  We  remember  well  the  ‘sensation’  produced  by  Fanny Kemble in this part. Mrs. Mowatt gives it with more evenness, and, in our opinion, with as much power—barring that she has not the physical force that resided in F. K.’s  45 slight looking frame. We consider Mrs. Mowatt to be a woman of special endowments— and trust that as time remedies the deficiencies of want of full practice, she will come

74	  


nearer and nearer to that climax of her noble art, which she evidently aims for, and which she last night showed several of the important requisites for—assuredly the most important, intellectuality. She has engrafted one good trait on her ‘style,’ too, that deserves the highest commendation: she entirely avoids the mannerisms which are the
5    curse of most actors and nearly all actresses—the hysterical jerking of the voice, at the end of sentences—the inane smile continued ‘through thick and thin’—the tragedy strut—the perpetual evidence of mere stage discipline—the stale professional tricks that are as common place in theatricals as certain conned phrases are in newspaper reporting. All these Mrs. Mowatt seems to have reformed altogether in her instance—
10    which makes her acting, on account of that reform alone, refreshing—at least to us. For our part we always prefer ripe sound plums, with the blue bloom upon them, plucked from nature’s branches, to any plums flummeried in stew-pans.




15
September 30, 1846



City Intelligence
[Broadway]


20		N. Y. Broadway is about the only thing that we will confess to ‘beat our time,’ in Brooklyn.—We have a healthier, pleasanter, more orderly, cleanly, ‘nice’ city than N. Y.; we have as elegant private dwellings—as commodious omnibusses, (vide the East Brooklyn ones,)—but we have no Broadway! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The shops of Broad- way are world famed. Stewart’s new place is just now all the rush in the ‘dry goods
25    line.’ And 341, Thos. Crane Banks’s, is just as famous in another and perhaps more beautiful line: the windows alone are a study. There are all kinds of dazzling and expensive knick-knacks—bracelets, whose worth is equivalent to a comfortable house and lot—necklaces that balance an editor ’s ten years’ salary—cameos on which the genius of art has taken pride in substantializing gorgeous thoughts—finger rings of
30    rare worth and brilliancy—and mantle ornaments of such indescribable make that we’ll not attempt a description. We were shown, by a friend there, the other day, a wristlet of heavy gold the weight whereof on a lady’s arm we should have called
‘aggrawatin’;  it  enclosed  a  costly  gold  watch,  set  in  diamonds,  and  many  other precious things besides. . . . . . . . . . . . A man can edify himself for hours by looking in
35    the shop windows of Broadway—and learn no little of human nature in the operation.





October 1, 1846
40



Do Such Energies Require ‘Protection’?


    We defy any one to read the former or following letter of our correspondent Viator, from Lowell, without feeling convinced—if not convinced before—that even Massa-
45    chusetts, which has been the best protected state in the Union, (her productions getting
70 per cent protection, while the others’ range from 2 to 30 per cent) does not need
anything but her own irresistible power of enterprise, ambition, spirit, and real wealth,

  	75


(there is a better wealth than money, know you?) to aid the United States in ‘whipping the  world,’  at  manufacturing  goods  of  almost  any  kind!  . . . . . .  We  are  amazed, however,  at  one  fact  mentioned  by  our  correspondent—that  which  mentions  the Sunday  labor  there,  as  an  established  custom. . . . . .  [Letter  and  its  introduction omitted—88 ll.]	5





October 1, 1846


The Literary World	10


THE    ACTOR;  or a Peep Behind the Curtain. Being passages in the Lives of  Booth and some of his contemporaries. Graham, N. Y. Wilder, Fulton and Atlantic sts. Brooklyn.
    Anecdotes of the Stage, told in a good-natured style, appear to be the material of  15 this work. The principal vein running through it, however, relates to the well-known Junius Brutus Booth.

HUNT’S  MERCHANTS’ MAGAZINE; for October. Freeman Hunt, 142 Fulton street, N. Y.
‘Business facilities of London and New York contrasted,’ is the leading article in  20
this No. The other articles are on various subjects, interesting not only to the commer-
cial man, but to the general reader.

MUSIC:  ‘O give me a neat little Cot,’ a Ballad by George Bleecker—composed by
H. S. Laroni.	25
The above comes to us from Cummings, 208 Fulton st. corner Clinton.





October 2, 1846

30
A Peaceful Conquest!


    The telegraphic news confirms the report of our forces taking quiet possession of Santa Fe on the 18th of August. The whole affair is, indeed, one of the most striking commentaries  on  the  ‘spirit  of  this  age’—the  spirit  of  the  progress  of  American  35 freedom, and the yielding of all weaker influences, and of ignorance and superstition,
to it. It is morally certain that the territory now ‘annexed’ will never more pass out of our hands. [Details of taking possession of Santa Fe omitted—14 ll.]

40



October 5, 1846


Nativism


The N. Y. Gazette in its lengthy answer to our Friday’s remarks on ‘foreigners,’—  45
and on the noble part taken for our American side in the Revolution, by many citizens

76	  


of Ireland—brings forward nothing that seems to demand a special reply at our hands. Facts, policy, justice, and ‘right,’ all have uttered their voices—and the Nativists have uttered theirs;—and we are quite content to let the deliberate decision of Americans— (even those who are native born)—settle the mooted points. . . . . . The Gazette and its
5    faction, however, have harped quite long enough on the gratuitous twist they have given to the aphoristic caution, ‘‘Beware of foreign influence!’’ in an assent to which they bring Washington, Jefferson, Jackson, Jay, Wolcott, &c. &c.—How can the Gazette demean itself to preach from day to day, on what it must know well enough is an entirely perverted meaning of that sentence? which refers to the machinations of
10    foreign potentates and governments, their corrupt diplomacy, their spite, ill-will, and wicked manœuvring. That it does not allude to the encouragement of immigration here, kind reception of immigrants, and their being taken into our ‘family circle,’ is evident enough not only from the entire course pursued by the distinguished men mentioned, but from the public ground of complaint against the British king, among
15    other reasons for our Revolution, that he ‘‘obstructed emigration from abroad, to our shores.’’ . . . . . . The idea of lugging in the noble Fathers of our earlier American time, to prop up Nativism, is among the most impudent ideas possible. And it is about as ridiculous as it is impudent. All the Presidents except John Adams—and all, without exception,  of  American  statesmen  of  any  note—have  invariably  been  in  favor  of
20    incorporating in our nationality, as many immigrants from abroad as choose to come to us. And John Adams, (intrinsically as honest and sincere a man as any of them,) was hurled from the Presidency for going counter, in a limited degree, to that liberality toward ‘foreigners,’ and that generous hospitality for them, which true American ‘public opinion’ fixed upon at the beginning as one of the good elements of character here. And any
25    party or public man, that defies that element, will just as surely fall into ruin, and quickly, too, as that there is a sky above us.
    — Will the Gazette, or any other Native organ, tell us specifically what benefit we are to expect in this country from the establishment of Nativist principles? What harm has accrued, under the plan we have hitherto pursued? What earnest did the Natives
30    give, while in power, of the high advantages they might, could, would, or should shower upon the land—or that portion of it which came under their sway? In New York city, they erewhile had undisturbed possession of power for a year. The only improvement they made, of which we are aware, was that they put to flight several scores of poor ‘foreign’ apple-women who formerly were allowed to turn an honest
35    penny by selling fruit and candies to little boys and girls at the street corners. This seems to have been not only the head and front, but the back, legs, and tail, of all their mighty efforts! The Great Reform Party, which struggled so hard, and moved Heaven and earth in its behalf, rested from its huge labors after decapitating fifty or sixty honest grannies who endangered the liberties of the people with peppermints and
40    pears! Is this a party to parade its claims before the American people—asking that all others shall ‘knock under ’ to it?
    The plain truth is, if nearly all which the enemies of the adopted citizens say against the latter were actually true, there are so many other issues upon which to have political parties—such far more important measures which affect the very vitals of
45    the national weal—that this single point of Nativism deserves to hold but a feather ’s weight.

  	77




October 5, 1846


The Literary World


FORSTER’S  STATESMEN  OF  THE   ENGLISH   COMMONWEALTH. No. 5. Harpers,  publishers.
The fifth No. completes this valuable issue. We have heretofore expressed, at	5
length, our high opinion of its merits. No. 5 is occupied with the Life of Cromwell.

HEIDELBERG; a Romance. By G. P. R. James, author of Richelieu, &c. Harpers, publishers.
Hardly has the guinea edition appeared in England, before the Cliff st. house
brings out the same thing for a quarter of a dollar!	10
— We see it stated that Washington Irving will immediately put to press his
history of Mohammed, the materials of which he has collected during his residence in
Spain, from the Moorish manuscripts and legends.

15


October 6, 1846
What We Thought at the Institute Fair, This Morning
20
    We went into the Great Fair at Castle Garden over the river this morning, (6th) and found matters yet in a considerable state of disarrangement. Workmen were busy
‘fixing’ things—carpenters hammered away, and a small army of cartmen and porters were up to their ears in business; some bringing articles for exhibition, some unloading them, some in sad perplexity about the best plans of displaying ‘sundries’ and where  25 to put them, &c. We advise our Brooklyn friends to hold on a while yet—a couple of days at least—before they visit the Fair for entertainment.
Upside-down as things were, however, there was a sufficiently immense array of
American productions to prove that our nation, even now, may challenge the world
in the perfection which it either has attained, or undoubtedly can and will attain,  30
in  quite  all  articles  made  by  human  hands,  or  from  the  workings  of  the  human
brain—which, we take it, includes about every thing that is made, not excepting
big turnips, squashes, pumpkins, and fat looking grapes, and variegated dahlias.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  The  friends  of  ‘protection’  make  a  great
mistake in pointing to these noble and plenteous exhibitions as evidences of the need  35
of barring off foreign competition by restrictive tariffs. The argument they furnish runs
exactly the other way. We always think, when we visit these exhibitions, how plain it is
that we can give the rest of the world odds, (allowing the stale humbug of ‘pauper
labor ’ too) and beat them then. We think (the evidence, then, being under our nose,)
that if any people on earth have been blessed by God with infinite physical advantages  40
of land—a soil so wide and various that it is kindly to everything that ground will
bear;—if any people ever contained in their mental resources the means and enterprise
necessary to develope those physical blessings to the utmost—ours is that land, and
the Americans are that people! We wonder how the protectionists can twist their own
judgments into such a scandal on their countrymen as to look on those little mountains  45
of fine cheap cotton and worsted cloths, linens, silks, and specimens of raw material—

78	  


those innumerable farming implements, each with some new improvement and convenience—those wares of glass, leather, cutlery, iron, and wood—with and so forths as long as a comet’s tail—and then whine and snuffle so about the absolute necessity, (the poor house staring us, they say, in the face, unless we do it,) of protecting
5    energies and results, which have those wondrous and visible tokens!





October 7, 1846
10


[Theatrical Criticism]


    As a very average proof of the method in which five sixths of the Theatrical Criticism of the New York press comes into existence, may be mentioned the long cut and  dried  puff  in  yesterday’s  N.  Y.  Herald,  of  the  Keans’  acting  in  a  play  which
15    accidentally did’nt come off ! This is not the first nor the second nor the third awkward blunder of the kind which has occurred of late. . . . . . . . . . . . Most of the ‘criticisms’ in the metropolitan press are written before the plays are played—and paid for by the theatre, or other parties. Of those which are not so paid for, the majority are the fruits of solicitation, favoritism, and so on. In the midst of all that stale and unwholesome
20    utterance, the speaking of a single paragraph of unbiased truth falls like an alarming and terrible thing! It would be a curious result—and a profitable one—to take a while to the theatre some man, highly educated and knowing to the world in other things— but totally fresh to the stage—and let him give his real opinions of the queer sort of doings he would see there.
25




October 7, 1846

30


[‘‘Indulgent Nature’’]

    Indulgent Nature seems disposed to bless us with a lingering taste of her most sweet bestowal, in the way of weather, before she closes up her summer accounts, and does business in the way of ‘hard times,’ frost and snow. Surely no mortal man could ask for finer weather than this now current. The air has a springiness and buoyancy
35    about it—the sky wafts but a few light clouds—and the sun gives us all his goodly warmth, without any of the unpleasant vividness erewhile of the dog-days. . . . . . . This is the weather for taking long walks in the country—for strolling out, not to kill an hour, or stave off vacuity—but to enjoy Life and Nature—to receive into the heart the thousand refining and indescribably sweet influences that this beautiful earth, in its
40   more agreeable phases, presents. The Autumn exhibits features which have been harped upon by poets, and painted by painters, for ages.—But the theme can never become stale—for it is rooted in the roots of trees, and blooms freshly in their perpetual bloom—lives in the gorgeous tints of the sky, and in the mellow haze of the autumn air—and smiles forever on the bright cool surface of the rivers;—and while
45    the trees, sky, and rivers exist, the mild glories of autumn too will develope impulses like the following, from one of our American poets:
[Poetry omitted—24 ll.]

  	79




October 8, 1846


Progress


Rain is not drank in more eagerly by the parched earth, than the ears of men, for
the past fifty years, have listened to those doctrines that would increase their political	5
rights, and that teach improvement in governing. The progress of this democratic
yearning for a better state bids fair to place the American people, twenty years hence,
by elevating humanity itself, and disregarding mere wealth and circumstances—by a
wholesome pruning of too much and too meddlesome laws—as far beyond what they
now are, as what they now are is beyond what they were seventy years ago. There  10
must be continual additions in our great experiment of how much liberty society will
bear. . . . . . . . . . . . And not only here, on our own beloved soil, is this democratic
feeling infusing itself, and becoming more and more powerful. The lover of his race—
he whose good-will is not bounded by a shore or a division line—looks across the
Atlantic, and exults to see on the shores of Europe, a restless dissatisfaction spreading  15
wider and wider every day. Long enough have priestcraft and kingcraft stalked over
those lands, clothed in robes of darkness and wielding the instruments of subjection.
The age of iron rule is passing away. A few divine spirits there are, who beard royalty,
even in its own strongholds—and the Pen shows itself mightier than the Sceptre.
The moth-eaten and age-decayed fabric of kingly government has been, and now is,  20
attacked on all sides, and by the ablest champions. It is a strong castle—a structure of
the feudal times; yet its enemies are stronger. Long did it resist all encroachments—
firmly did it defy every besieger—loudly from its battlements came the shrill laugh of
defiance and scorn—insolently flaunted its banners in the breeze. But the time is
arrived when it can no longer withstand the united force of truth and might. Tower  25
after tower falls. The gates have been broken in, and the laugh of defiance is changed
to a disturbed look of apprehension. The citadel itself even now yields to a hundred
lusty blows—and the period will ere many years be here when every vestige will be
swept away.
30




October 8, 1846


Baron Von Raumer
35

    We  have  lately  been  reading  for  the  second  time,  Von  Raumer ’s  ‘America’ published last summer in N. Y. by the Langleys. The Baron Von Raumer seems to be a man of note in his own country—a traveller of experience, and author of numerous works, of a historical, scientific and miscellaneous description.—His account of the
U. S. will aid the great advancement of freedom abroad, in the same way as a giant  40 may be aided by washing his eyes when they are dim, and see blindly. So many works have been written by foreigners, abusive of America, and questioning the soundness of
our institutions, that the very people abroad themselves were perplexed whether men ought  to  trust  the  light  that  lives  within  them,  and  look  not  to  extrinsic  aid  in government. One single work like ‘America’ baffles and backs the waves of detraction.  45
It is a rock immoveable in the sea; and though it may not dash the angry waves all down  again,  it  is  the  foundation  where  a  light  house  stands,  a  beacon  and  an

80	  


illumination to all who come in its neighborhood. We must not forget before concluding our notice, that there are some small matters in which this intelligent German is altogether too easy with us. We by no means relish flattery for our national vices—and we have plenty of them. As a turner aside of the sneers and falsehoods of
5    our distant libellers, it is perhaps well that the work is so strong in our favor. But here at home it will do no harm to remember that we have not by any means reached perfection. The abuse has prevailed so thoroughly in foreign accounts of us, however, that probably the baron has allowed himself deliberately to lean to the other side as far as possible. Heaven bless him for it! and heaven bless him, too, for his imperturbable
10    good temper, which spreads through all he writes!





October 8, 1846
15


An Indignant Official


Of the Great Western—viz. the much aggrieved cook (aided by the stewards)—is out with a letter to the public, through the N. Y. prints, in which he flatly denies that part of the ‘‘Narrative’’ put forth by the passengers, where they say that during the most
20   terrible part of the storm of the 21st ult. they were not able to get their dinner regularly—which, they leave the inference to be drawn, was’nt much matter, as they expected to be drowned shortly, and felt no appetite. The letter of the indignant cook aforesaid comes like a shower bath on this melancholy part of the Narrative aforesaid: for  the  cook  avers  solemnly  that  they  not  only  had  the  regular  meals  without
25    intermission, but, he says, ‘‘In addition, we had the customary lunch at 12 o’clock, exact, except the soup, which was upset.’’ He also sends for the examination of a highly excited public the bills of fare for the 20th, 21st, and 22nd ults., and swears on his word and honor, both as a gentleman and a cook, that they were not varied the smallest splintering of a hair either as to quality or time! His testimony is clear and emphatic.
30    He avers point blank. His (and the steward’s) dearest reputation and good name have been attacked—and he comes to the rescue—and triumphantly.
    Now, in our humble opinion, this cool conduct of the cook’s, (or the steward’s—it matters not which; the principle is the same,) shows a more exquisite courage than was possessed by all the passengers—perhaps even by the captain and officers beside.—
35    Rigid to a minute—to the turn of a steak, or just the necessary tittle of salt—was he— that noble cook! While awful storms raged without, and the foaming waves beat against the groaning vessel as if the next minute was to engulf all on board—he was determined to do his duty, to the last. Bravissimo! Give us the cook of the Great Western, before your mere vulgar heroes! And the steward: he, too, was rigid: not a
40    fork was misplaced, we dare be bound—not a napkin folded awry! . . . . . . And are such men (the more deserving, because in their lowly stations they cannot expect to get much beside that self-approval which they doubtless do get, as they certainly ought to have much public honors)—Are such men to be cheated out of their well-earned fame by  a  few  dozen  frightened  fresh-water  folk?  Are  they  to  go  down  to  posterity,
45    identified with the abominable loss of all self-possession and dignity, of that now famous, and hereafter to be more famous, passage? Forbid it truth! Forbid it, (if that is not too fearful a leap from the other) the newspapers! We call for the cognomen of the

  	81


cook of the Great Western; we also call for the cognomen of the steward, or stewards, who so nobly did what the rightly judging public ‘‘expects every man to do’’—his full duty—on such occasions. We call, in the name of all people who expect to make voyages, for these cognomens. It is an important thing. It doesn’t make the least difference in the world because it was merely eatables directly involved—it is the	5 principle. . . . . . We won’t expand this article any farther, either, to cogitate the question whether the products of the cook’s and steward’s labors were really devoured by the disconsolate passengers on the 20th and 21st ults.; though we have our own private belief, (and remember to have heard that people apprehensive of a wreck don’t know what they do,)—yet now, while we are on the matter, we suggest that that mystery too,  10 (whether the passengers did eat heartily or not) be fully cleared up. We may as well have all the light we can get, on such an universally important matter. . . . . . . . . P. S.
As the Great Western is to sail to-day, we are agonised to think that the public will have to  wait  for  further  information  till  she  comes  back  again—unless  some  honest passenger steps forward to relieve the tensely strung and general anxiety.	15





October 9, 1846


The Union vs. Fanaticism	20


    ‘‘While abolitionism and a portion of whigism are uniting against the democracy, and boldly proclaiming that the Union is of no sort of consequence compared with the existence and encroach- ments of southern slavery, it is high time that the friends of the constitution should rally to its support, and arrest at once the spirit of disunion which threatens the existence of our glorious  25
confederacy.’’

    We think, with the Boston Post, that this is the doctrine: ‘‘The Union—it must be preserved.’’ The democracy should stand forth in every section of our country as the uncompromising supporters of the Union;—the traitorous demagogue, or the reckless fanatic, who would endanger its safety, should be boldly met and his wicked designs  30 defeated. The patriotism and good sense of the community will ultimately do this, we doubt not—but the approach of anarchy should be checked at the start, and a brand
set upon its instigators. The effort to destroy our Constitution—the work of the wisest and purest convention of statesmen ever assembled—and to dissolve the Union, is worthy only of a madman or a villain.	35





October 9, 1846


Mr. Burke the Violinist	40


    The capricious marvels of Ernst’s ‘edition’ of the Carnival of Venice were surely never given with more surpassing brilliance than last night, by Mr. Burke, the violinist, at De Meyer ’s concert in the N. Y. Tabernacle. After having often heard Ole Bull’s
performance of the same prodigious musical climax, (in the way of difficulty) we do  45 not hesitate to say that Mr. Burke is up to any artist of the age—if not ahead of any. It seems, indeed, quite impossible for greater power, variety, and expression to be drawn

82	  


from the violin, with greater dexterity, smoothness, and as occasion demands lightning-like quickness—than Mr. B. evinced last evening. We know nothing, and wish to know nothing, of the wrangles of cliques, &c. in the musical circles of New York: we only know that Mr. Burke possesses the highest genius—and that is quite
5    enough to know, in our allusions to him as an artist. That he is an adopted American citizen is none the less a merit to us—though whatever his country, the gifts wherewith God has endowed him, give him a claim on the good will of every heart to which God has also given an appreciation for the beautiful.

10



October 9, 1846


‘Yankee Doodle Come’


15		Yes; Yankee Doodle—the much talked of, the anticipated, and worth-canvassed in advance—has ‘come to town’ at last! The worthy publisher, Graham, N. Y., has sent us a copy in advance—knowing probably that we could appreciate such a ‘good thing’; for  Yankee  Doodle  is  a  good  thing,  and  we,  the  public  in  general  and  editors  in particular, must give it our hearty support. It is a print that outweighs in value the
20    thousand-double of its intrinsic price. . . . . . . . . . . . The leader in Yankee Doodle is one of the most tasty and eloquent dove-tailings together of true American simplicity, humor, sincerity, good-heartedness, and depth of pathos too, that we have read for a long time. It settles the question with us, that the influence of Yankee Doodle will be wielded in behalf of those good and great reforms—of dressing beautiful morals in
25    fantastic drapery, and giving a pill of philosophy in what superficially is but the turn of a joke—which characterise its prototype on the other side of the Atlantic.—We therefore hail Yankee Doodle as a true and goodly laborer in the Field of Human Elevation—and  though  itself  would  be  the  first, perhaps,  to  turn  such  a  serious thought into a witticism, we look upon it as a sort of weekly preacher, winning and
30    melting its readers to the influences it wots them to bend under. [Quotation from Yankee Doodle omitted—127 ll.]





35    October 9, 1846


[‘‘Our Charming Weather’’]


    Our charming weather continues yet! Both the days and nights are beautiful exceedingly—the days with their brilliant freshness and elasticity, and the nights with
40    their clear shining full moon, and the moistness in the air. It is hard to drudge at one’s work these sweet autumn times—much harder, of course, than when the sharp frosty air we are going to have surrounds every thing that is not housed.—We therefore take the  liberty  of  advising  the  gentle  reader  (which,  we  hope,  includes  quite  all  our
‘patrons’) to steal away a day or two—or a few hours at least—now while the Heavens
45    invite him, (or her) and commune with what he will see outside of cities. We advise the
ennuyee, the dyspeptic, the sour man, the grumbler, the dawdling lady too, to go forth

  	83


in the neighborhood of trees and where nothing intercepts the broad view of the sky up above; go to the outer wards of Brooklyn, to farther East Brooklyn, to Greenwood, to Flatbush—to Hoboken, or Staten Island—and inflate the lungs with the purest of air, once in your life at least!—Now is the special time, too, for early rising. Now,

‘Morn on the mountain, like a summer bird,	5
Lifts  up her purple wing, and in the vales,
The  gentle wind, a sweet and passionate wooer,
Kisses  the blushing leaf, and stirs up life
Within the solemn woods of ash deep-crimsoned,
And  silver beech, and maple yellow leaved,	10
Where autumn, like a faint old man, sits down
By  the wayside a-weary. Through the trees
The  golden robin moves. The purple finch,
That  on wild-cherry and red-cedar feeds,
A  winter bird, comes with its plaintive whistle,	15
And  pecks by the witch-hazel, whilst aloud
From cottage roofs the warbling bluebird sings,
And  merrily, with oft-repeated stroke,
Sounds from the threshing-floor the busy flail.’

    And shall we not give the consequent moral, which the poet hinges on his vividly  20 descriptive lines—the sweet one of our American poets, Longfellow? For the love of natural beauty, and a high appreciation of moral beauty, may and do, fitly go together. Eloquently saith he—

‘Oh, what a glory doth this world put on,
For him who, with a fervent heart, goes forth,	25
Under  the bright and glorious sky, and looks
On duties well performed, and days well spent!
For him the wind, ay, and the yellow leaves,
Shall  have a voice, and give him eloquent teachings.
He  shall so hear the solemn hymn, that Death	30
Has  lifted up for all, that he shall go
To his long-resting place without a tear.’





October 10, 1846

35

[Protection]


 It is singular what different views people take of the same thing—what a strange variety  of inferences is drawn from the same source. After our visit to the Castle  40
Garden Fair, on Tuesday last, we informed our readers of the impression it produced upon us: we informed them that the sight of such beautiful and cunningly wrought fabrics, such improvements in machinery, and such cheap wares (for the price is one important thing always remembered in the comparison of the articles at the Fair, with
‘foreign’ articles of similar texture) convinced us, if any further proof were wanting,  45
that American energy and industry were quite ‘tall’ enough to go alone, and ask no

84	  


odds of the rest of the world. But our whig contemporary the Brooklyn Advertiser has visited the Fair, too—has looked with admiration on the same generous products of nature and art—has been filled with pleasure and pride to see them—but alas! veils its joy in grief because ‘‘now that we have had just experience enough to enable us to
5    commence a competition with the foreign manufacturer, is it not too bad that the protection, which has been extended, should be taken off? and, just as we were about preparing  to  throw  defiance to  the  world  in  point  of  manufactures,  we  must  be compelled to make a retrograde movement, and again take the stand which we occupied previous to 1842.’’ . . . . . . . . . . Terrible tractoration! you that have hand-
10    kerchiefs, prepare them as you go through the Fair! and let zinc ducts be fitted round to carry off the outpourings of human lachrymal ducts!
    The argument of asking for ‘protection’ because American workmen and capital- ists ‘hurry up’ such things as are now exhibited at Castle Garden, is one of the most marvellous of arguments that ever were argued. It is as much as to say, There! see that
15    vigorous, stalwart-limbed young fellow, with his chest like a giant’s, and his face the picture of health: let us go and assist him in his walk, for he will surely fall down. Behold how springy are his limbs; procure him a couple of crutches forthwith. Lo! now he rushes past his fellows with the airy swiftness of a bird: persuade him to be carried on a hand-barrow. Poor youth! he is running over with health; he must therefore be
20    nursed and medicined a bit. See, in his form, what a blending of Apollo with Hercules: How can it be supposed, therefore, that he can hold his own against any one of those shrivelled meagre companions of his, with their frightful paleness, and their thin gray hairs?

25



October 10, 1846


[The Boston ‘‘Post’’]


30	If the Boston Post is greene enough to doubt any thing positively affirmed in the
Brooklyn Eagle, we quite despair of the republic—at least the eastern section.





35    October 12, 1846


The Literary World


LONGFELLOW’S   POEMS.  Harpers, N. Y.
This is a handsome fifty cent edition of many of the finest poems in the English
40    language—for we consider Mr. Longfellow to be gifted by God with a special faculty
of dressing beautiful thoughts in beautiful words. The country is not half just to this
eloquent writer; an honor and a glory as he is to the American name—and deserving
to stand on the same platform with Bryant and Wordsworth. The pages of the book we
are noticing abound with proofs of this deserving: one little turn of thought alone in his
45    poem of ‘Rain’ is a specimen—a startlingly wild and solemn thought, which, in its
complete out-of-the-way-ness from anything like commonplace, could never have
sprung in the mind of any but a genuine Converser with the Ideal;—

  	85


‘For his thought, that never  stops, Follows the water drops
Down  to the graves of the dead,
Down  through chasms and gulfs  profound,
To the dreary fountain-head	5
Of  lakes and rivers under ground;
And  sees them when the rain is done,
On the bridge of colors seven
Climbing  up once more to heaven,
Opposite  the setting sun’—	10

Says he—as a suggestion of how the commonest occurrences offer themes of great thoughts to the true poet.


BROWN’S  WHALING  CRUISE,  AND  HISTORY  OF  THE   WHALE  FISHERY.  By J. Ross Brown.
Harpers, N. Y.	15
This large and handsomely printed work is upon a subject little treated of by
‘literary men;’ for with the exception of young Dana’s book, we know hardly a work
prepared by a competent eye-witness, on the subject of the Whale Fishery, in its actual
operations, and all the strange and varied scenes it exhibits. Numerous engravings,
from drawings by Mr. Von Schmidt, adorn the work, and explain the text. Besides the  20
interesting acct. of a Cruise in a Whaler and of the Whale Fishery, with authentic
adventures,  anecdotes,  &c.,  there  are  notes  of  a  sojourn  in  Zanzibar,  &c.  . . . . . . . . 
Perhaps, of late, there has hardly been a book ‘brought out’ with less of flummery, and
more of real worth, than these ‘Etchings’ as the author himself modestly calls them.
They take the reader right into the midst of the scenes they describe; and with a  25
pleasant freshness of style, aided by the pictures, afford a certainty of realizing and
comprehending what is told, as if it were beheld with the bodily vision. We shall
shortly make some extracts from the work.


LIFE, TRAVELS, AND  ADVENTURES  IN  CALIFORNIA, AND  SCENES  IN  THE   PACIFIC  OCEAN.    30
By Thos. J. Farnham. W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, N. Y.
Truly  says  the  writer  of  this  book,  ‘‘We  may  learn  much  from  the  pulseless
solitudes—from the desert untrodden by the foot of living thing—from the frozen
world of mountains, whose chasms and cliffs never echoed to aught but the thunder
tempests  girding  their  frozen  peaks—from  old  Nature,  piled,  rocky,  bladeless,  35
toneless—if we will allow its lessons of awe to reach the mind, and impress it with the
fresh and holy images which they were made to inspire.’’ . . . . . . The topics treated of
in this work are not only the Californias, and ‘life’ there, but the Great South Sea
and the Hawaiian Islands. Graham has published it in very fair style—and the price is
fifty cents.	40


Virtue’s ILLUSTRATED  FAMILY   BIBLE,  Nos. 31 and 32.—26 John st., N. Y.
Beautiful engravings of the ‘Mount of Olives,’ and ‘Paul preaching at Athens,’
embellish these numbers. The Landscape is surpassingly fine—from drawings taken
on the spot, and presenting the scene to the life. We have previously spoken in very  45
high terms of the typographical excellence of this serial.

86	  


GREENWOOD    ILLUSTRATED. No. 2. R. Martin, 26 John st., N. Y.
The plan of this work involves engravings, executed in the perfectest style of the
art, of real scenes in Greenwood—the tombs, the walks, the picturesque groupings of
trees, the water views, etc., and also descriptive and biographical notices, with matter
5    opportune to the character of the work. In printing, paper, &c. ‘Greenwood Illustrated’
is a special master-piece.

POEMS,  by C. F. Hoffman. Harpers, N. Y.
Mr. Hoffman is a gay writer—and many of his pieces make one think of Moore,
10    whose style he imitates. But Mr. Hoffman has not, by very, very far, the ‘gift’ of a
‘divine’ poet.





15    October 13, 1846


The Victory


    Upon close examination, Taylor ’s capture of Monterey on the 24th-ult., appears to  be  a  greater  achievement  even  than  his  victories  at  Palo  Alto  and  La  Palma.
20    Storming an army of double his own force—that army posted in the most advan- tageous manner, with inexhaustible ammunition, and every thing in the world to make them ‘hold out’—and the inflexible perseverance of his troops day after day until triumph was accomplished—make a fit conclusion to the previous operations of our soldiery on the Rio Grande! It is another clinching proof of the indomitable energy of
25    the Anglo-Saxon character; and were it not that so many gallant men have been struck down in the battle, would afford cause for unmarred exultation!
    But war is a dreadful evil, in any event and under any circumstances—and we hope (and feel confident) that the Government of the United States will bow suf- ficiently to that public opinion which over the whole civilized world is arrayed against
30    war, except on an extreme contingency, as to leave no way untried to stop this contest of ours with Mexico—and allow the U. S. to pursue its peaceful conquests—which are far grander and more blessed and more enduring than any conquests of force.




35
October 13, 1846



The New Violinist


We went over to the N. Y. Tabernacle last night, (12th) to hear Camillo Sivori’s
40    concert. The man is a true artist: he deserves a niche near Burke, Vieuxtemps, and Ole
Bull; he has a fully equal portion with them of the ethereal fire! . . . . . . . . . . . His
execution on a single string of Paganini’s ‘La Preghiera di Mose,’ (the prayer of Moses)
went through the house like a miracle—and the Martial Theme into which it merges at
the end made one’s heart dance under one’s ribs. We welcome this man among us;—
45    for heavenly genius belongs to no country, and we scorn the common cant which
would sneer at such genius’ highest developement, merely because its birth-place was

  	87


in a distant land! We scorn to join in the ready cry of ‘humbug,’ at such a man as Sivori—merely because he speaks broken English, and has ascended in his profession to that ‘height of the great argument,’ for which the vulgar taste has no appreciation!
. . . . . . . . . . . Miss Moss sang well last night—and the band behaved gloriously.
5




October 14, 1846


General Taylor
10

    The more we hear and read of this man, the more we think he in many respects resembles Washington. In moderation, in the most immovable firmness, in caution, in a fatherly regard for his troops,—and, we may add, in a repugnance to carry out the results of war to an extreme of severity against the enemy—it is not too much to say
that our Commander on the Rio Grande, emulates the Great Commander of our  15
Revolution.  The  former  prefers—like  the  latter  preferred—to  effect  positively  a
measured advantage, rather than grasp after a more brilliant one, and run the risk of
losing all, and certainty of losing much; he prefers substance to mere glory—is not
ashamed  to  be  generous  to  a  weak  foe—seeks  to  blend  in  all  his  acts,  a  due
forbearance—which is so difficult, with the emphatic movements required in our  20
Mexican campaign.
Some of our contemporaries are vexed because Gen. Taylor did not make sharper
terms with the Mexicans at Monterey, did not, (we suppose) signalise his victory with
more carnage, and glut the cravings of a bloody appetite with a greater infliction of
death and disaster. It is a sad commentary on public gratitude for public services that  25
these complaints are so open and cool; for Gen. Taylor ’s services might entitle him to a
little of that forbearance due even the mistakes of such a man. But that Gen. Taylor has
made the least mistake in granting the terms he did grant to Ampudia, it is idle to
assert! It is idle—or rather it is presumptuous—for any one, distant from the field of
operations, and knowing little of many hidden influences which doubtless had a  30
potent bearing there—to put forward his flippant criticisms on a man who has showed
such masterly qualities for his position, as Gen. Taylor has showed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The official despatches from the conquered head quarters of our army at Monterey
hold the following language: ‘‘It will be seen that the terms granted the Mexican
garrison are less rigorous than those first imposed. The gallant defence of the town,  35
and the fact of a recent change of government in Mexico, believed to be favorable to the
interest of peace, induced me to concur with the commission in these terms, which
will, I trust, receive the approval of the government. The latter consideration also
prompted the convention for a temporary cessation of hostilities. Though scarcely
warranted by my instructions, yet the change of affairs since those instructions were  40
issued  seemed  to  warrant  this  course.’’  It  is  intimated  from  Washington  that  the
Government have forthwith sent on orders dissenting from any ‘‘cessation’’—which,
under a specific provision of the capitulation, nullifies the armistice, and leaves matters
in that respect as before. . . . . . . . . . . . Be that as it may, we honor Gen. Taylor the
more that he granted generous terms to a foe in his power—that he preferred all the  45
solid results of a sure and less bloody triumph, to the more brilliant contingency of

88	  


storming the citadel, of immense slaughter on both sides, and taking a ponderous army prisoners of war. What could he do with prisoners twice the amount of his own force, and in an enemy’s country? It would look very showy in print to tell about the deadly struggle, and the triumph that would afterward have followed; but we, for one,
5    prefer the quieter and surer plan which Taylor decided on,—and we honor him that he chose that nobler course—which a commoner hero doubtless, would not have done.





10    October 14, 1846


The Literary World


TWO    LIVES:  OR   TO   SEEM  AND  TO   BE. By Mary J. McIntosh, author of ‘Conquest and
Self-Conquest’; etc. D. Appleton and Co., 200 Broadway, N. Y.
15	This tastily printed work is one of those which may so safely and so profitably be
introduced into the domestic circle—given to the young, without the need of any
explanation except that found in its own pages. The style is smooth, and the interest of
the narrative well sustained. The moral involved is borne in the title-page—the moral
of  being  rather  than  seeming  what  is  right  and  true.  We  especially  like  the  good
20    typography of the publication.

LANETON  PARSONAGE. A Tale. By the author of ‘Amy Herbert,’ ‘Gertrude’; etc. Edited by the Rev. W. Sewell. B. D. Appleton, Broadway, N. Y.
Another of the excellent books, this, which the reading of penetrates the heart of
25    the reader with a gentle and wholesome influence. Sober enough to take entirely away
from it any trait of flippancy, and with incident enough to enchain the attention of any
one who opens it, and keep that attention alive to the end of the book—it is peculiarly
one  of  those  safe  books  which  are  really  needed  in  these  days  of  plentiful  ‘light
literature’. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  To  him  who  prefers  the  wise  method  of  turning  the
30    cravings of appetite in young people for works of an imaginative cast, into a means of
teaching them many beautiful morals, we commend the two above-mentioned works
from the Appletons’ house.

THE   ARCHITECT, a series of Original Designs for Domestic and Ornamental Cottages,
35	connected with Landscape Gardening, adapted to the United States; illustrated by
drawings of Ground plots, Plans, Perspective Views, Elevations, Sections, and
Details. By Wm. H. Ranlett, Architect. W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, N. Y.
This is a richly printed monthly publication in quarto form; and its purport is
explained by its name.
40
DEMOCRATIC  REVIEW,  for October. T. P. Keitell, 142 Fulton st., N.  Y. AMERICAN   REVIEW,  for October. Wiley and Putnam.
LITTELL’S   LIVING   AGE,  Nos. 125 and 6. Waite, Pearce & Co., Boston.
The ‘Democratic’ has a capital article on Slaves and Slavery, in this No., in which
45    the subject is treated dispassionately, and with that remembrance of ‘abstract’ truth,
too, which is the only proper way to treat the subject at all. . . . . . . . . . . . The ‘Ameri-
can’ is building up a ‘brilliant reputation’ for itself. . . . . . . . . . . . . The Boston ‘Age’

  	89


could hardly be addressed in the way of Cassius’ apostrophe to his age—or ‘‘shamed’’
at any thing attaching to it.

A BIRTH-DAY   BIJOU.  By F. S. Osgood. Clark & Austin, Sun buildings, N. Y.
A little drop of a volume, with divers pretty poems in fine type.	5





October 17, 1846


The Literary World	10


HEROES AND HERO   WORSHIP. By Thos. Carlyle. Wiley and Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y.
Under his rapt, wierd, (grotesque?) style the writer of this work has placed—we
may almost say hidden—many noble thoughts. That his eyes are clear to the numerous
ills which afflict humanity, and that he is a Democrat in that enlarged sense which we  15
would fain see more men Democrats;—that he is quick to champion the downtrodden,
and earnest in his wrath at tyranny—is evident enough in almost any one page of Mr.
Carlyle’s writings. . . . . . . . . . . . . We must confess, however, that we would have
preferred to get the thoughts of this truly good thinker, in a plainer and more custom-
ary garb. No great writer achieves any thing worthy of him, by inventing merely a new  20
style. Style in writing, is much as dress in society; sensible people will conform to the
prevalent mode, as it is not of infinite importance any how, and can always be so
varied as to fit one’s peculiar way, convenience, or circumstance.

THE   ROSE   OF  SHARON: a Religious Souvenir for 1847.—Edited by Mrs. Edgarton. For   25
sale at 140 Fulton st., N. Y.
A very tastily printed volume, this, more especially intended we believe, for those
attached to the Universalist denomination;—but its merit in a moral, literary and
typographical point of view, would, we should suppose, entitle it to a welcome admis-
sion in quite all classes where beauty is welcomed.	30

MRS.  SOUTHEY’S   POEMS.  Wiley and Putnam.
As Caroline Bowles, this lady attained a literary reputation of no unenviable class,
both abroad and in this country. We like her writings. She is no mere versifier, (as too
many of the ‘celebrated’ of her sex are,) but always makes the words and the rhyme  35
mere setters to the real gem of thought contained within them. We give to-day one of
this  lady’s  smaller  effusions—an  opportune  one,  too—and  one,  which,  though
beautiful, is not more beautiful than most of her other pieces.

PICTORIAL   ENGLAND, No. 9. Harpers.	40
MARTIN,  THE    FOUNDLING, No. 6. Harpers.
The first of these is a capital serial, which cannot lose any purchaser any thing.
The second we have not examined.

PRINCE’S   MANUAL   OF   ROSES.  Clark & Austin, N. Y.	45
‘‘In the earlier days of the writer,’’ says Mr. Prince, ‘‘it was his frequent response to
friends, when the sorrows of life formed the theme, that he ne’er knew a sorrow, which

90	  


he could not ramble among flowers and forget.’’ . . . . . . The work in question presents a History of the Rose in all varieties, and information on their culture, &c.

SPIRIT   OF   THE   AGE.  By Wm. Hazlitt. Wiley and Putnam.
5	‘To know a man well, were to know himself,’ is the motto on the title page; after
which we have developments of the ‘inner life’ of such men as Jeremy Bentham,
Coleridge, Horne Tooke, Gifford, Brougham, Leigh Hunt, Cobbett, Elia, and Geoffrey
Crayon. The book forms No. 70 of the Library of Choice Reading.

10



October 17, 1846


Pennsylvania and Ohio


15		Whether the Pennsylvania election proves to have gone against the Democrats or not, in the aggregate, the returns exhibit in certain quarters a Whig gain. The opposi- tion are making a great splutter about this—exaggerating it five-fold, and pointing to it as an evidence of the rebuke of the people to the General Government, and a protest against the new Tariff law. Now as far as people’s opinions, expressed in the way of
20    elections, go, we are willing to strike an average, when all the balances are ready.
Ohio’s is not yet ready. Let us wait and get that.
— It does not run counter to the enduring faith we have in the popular instincts, to
say that the people may be swayed from General Truths, by excitement, by local self-
interests, by the arts of demagogues, and so on. We are not surprised that Massa-
25    chusetts, with 75 per cent of her whole productions ‘protected,’ goes for high tariffs.
Neither, were bad news from Pennsylvania, with her mining interests unnecessarily
angry, to ‘overcome us like a summer cloud,’ do we see cause for ‘special wonder.’
Waves subside, after a storm; and so do men. And in the calm clearness and the fullest
light it is, that the high merits of the Democratic doctrine are to be seen and infuse
30    themselves into the mind, to grow out in future action.





October 17, 1846

35



Prohibition of Liquor-vending, &c.


In the editorial columns of the last (Thursday, 15th,) Richmond Va. Republican, we
find the following announcement:

40	J. B. GOUGH —LICENSE   LAW.—The  Norfolk papers publish a circular from Gen.  John  H.
Cocke of Fluvanna, proposing to invite Mr. Gough to spend the winter months in  Virginia,
delivering five addresses a week in each county, for the remuneration of $100 per week from
each county where he may be invited. Gen. C. also states in his circular that it is the intention of
the citizens of Fluvanna, and perhaps of other counties in the State, to petition the Legislature at
45    its approaching session, for the passage of a law (similar to the New York act)  referring the
license  question to the people.

  	91


    — To invite Mr. Gough to lecture on Temperance is commendable enough, per- haps: as certainly to take all moral means in the world to inculcate that noble virtue— to impress it upon youth, and lose no proper opportunity of sowing those seeds whose growth will root out the evil weed of intemperance—are high and glorious duties
which any man who loves his fellow men will acknowledge the worth of. But if the	5 people of Virginia knew what miserable effects follow the New License law in this State, they would hardly be emulous of walking in that part of our footsteps. We doubt whether it has done any good at all—whether it has prevented one case of drunken- ness, since its passage—whether it has given the noble cause of Temperance one single advantage, or the least additional impetus. [Effects of New License law, example of  10 inconsistencies in its operation, and comment on its inconsistencies omitted—50 ll.]
It is justly claimed for this age that among the many true reforms that have found ardent advocates—and success—Temperance in its beautiful simplicity stands conspic- uous. And it is asked that no obstacle be laid in her way, but that every one assist her progress. We, too, admire this beneficent progress—this baffling of appetite, and the  15 redemption of so many men from intemperate cravings which degrade their nature, and scatter so much ruin in their families, and in the world. We, too, say God speed! to
the goodly enterprise. But we cannot go to that extreme which loses sight of other, and as  great, Truths. For it must not be forgotten that there are other great truths in the world, besides the truths of Temperance. And they harmonise together, too,—and the  20 man who vitiates the one, in a greater or less degree vitiates the others. There are a great many vicious customs in the world—many of them, far far meaner and wickeder than drinking a glass of brandy; and if it be acknowledged that it is the province of the statute book, the courts, and the officers of justice, to destroy them, (which acknowl- edgment is the foundation of the proceedings under the New License law,) we shall  25 open a work so interminable and immense that a finite mind cannot scan it—whose hopeless end is lost in obscurity, and whose success it would be folly to expect!
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We do not think, (and have said so many a time and oft in these columns) that it is the proper province of law to interfere with a man’s doings in
any way, until the man unequivocally trenches on the rights of his neighbor. The  30
multiplication of statutes for any other purpose (than that of protecting rights) is idle.
‘The best government is that which governs least.’ . . . . . More shortly.





October 19, 1846

35

Local Intelligence Ventilation of  Domestic  Rooms, Public Schools,  Steamboat Cabins,
and Our New City Hall	40


    In very many well-built houses now-a-days, there is some regard paid to a proper ventilation of the air—some, but hardly enough, we fancy. An immense number of the fine and costly edifices of Brooklyn, are entirely regardless of the necessity of this
comfort. Care is taken; and money expended, on every thing else;—there are orna-  45
mental carving and gilding for the parlors, perhaps—a conservatory of flowers, it

92	  


may be—but no contrivance for keeping the air pure! This is as though a man should adorn his person with jewelry—but go shivering through the streets in winter, with nought but a thin cotton garment to keep him from the cold. How would people like to drink stagnant water? And yet stagnant air is worse! The dead heat of close coal stoves
5    which so many folks are in the habit of preserving in their rooms during the winter, is poisonous enough for health. But the evil would be materially neutralised, if there were openings in the ceiling or chimney, properly constructed to draw off the surcharged air. These could be made at a very small expense, and their worth is incalculable. . . . . . . . . . . . We have noticed with pleasure that in the Middagh st.
10    Public School, in this city, the rooms are thoroughly ventilated—that the flocks of little creatures who gather there are not forced to breathe over and over again the same putrid atmosphere—as school children are made to breathe it in so many other places. This is a most important matter for the consideration of architects; and, as relates to Public Schools, we are amazed that ventilation is not one of the points claiming audi-
15    ence, the same as the walls and windows of the building—for it is quite as neces- sary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [Quotation from Evening Post on ventilation omitted—24 1⁄2    ll.]  And this leads us to add a hope and an injunction that in our Brooklyn City Hall, now building, the matter of proper ventilation will be kept in due remembrance. The horrible manner in which
20    the present Common Council Chamber is ‘situated’ in this respect, is enough, we should think, to make the C. C. think of it, every night they meet. Every room in our new City Hall must have a contrivance for furnishing a supply of air that is air, and letting out that which is not much better than poison.

25


October 21, 1846
Holy Bible—Illuminated: Harpers’ Edition
30
    The taste for pictorials is one of those developements of the imaginative quality— one which resides in quite every man—which is fed in childhood, and in a great degree is common alike to all classes.—Artificial straining may sometimes lead certain persons to disdain gratifying that taste except in the way of what are specially called
35    ‘works of art,’—paintings in oil, &c. But the real artist eye will recognize beauty in all spirited transcripts of God’s works—whether in the style of etching, engraving, or what not—so long as they evince a true idea in the mind of the sketcher, and are done with merit. For, if we go to the bottom of the matter, the excellence of a work of art consists principally in its capability of provoking thought and pleasure in the mind;
40    and though this remark may be considered common-place enough, the fact is, many people substitute as their test of excellence, a far more artificial standard—the unison of the work judged, with something less general than the proper standard. . . . . . We have just been engaged, (as before, times manifold,) in looking over the pages of Harpers’ Illustrated Bible. It is almost useless to say that no intelligent man can touch
45    the Book of Books with an irreverent hand: and it is somewhat curious that this is specially the case in respect to a heavy quarto edition. A man cannot treat that hastily,

  	93


as it lies on the table before him. The ponderous pages rebuke all flippancy. They seem to demand grave slowness of deliberation, and a calm devout regard. The Illustrated edition of the Bible published by the Harpers, is one of those really great productions, which are entitled not only to our ‘special wonder,’ but to admiration and respect. The design itself is a vast one; to take the entire Volume, and embellish not only every	5 chapter but every page with pictorials appropriate to it—and moreover in this to satisfy the high requirement of an appropriateness to such a work as the Bible—is indeed a bold and vast design. But it seems to have been wrought out with means as comprehensive as the idea itself. For several years before the first No. was issued, artists, designers, engravers, &c., many of them of the very highest rank in their  10 departments, were, we understand, at work upon it. All the light hitherto thrown on
the scenes, peculiarities, customs, observances, and so on, involved directly or indirectly in the text of Sacred Writ, were collected together, compared and digested;— and the result is seen in this masterpiece of its kind—we hardly fear to say, unequalled
by the publishing of any other printers in this country or in Europe.	15
[Further details omitted—128 1⁄2     ll.]





October 21, 1846

20
Brooklyn Ferry Rights


    We alluded the other day to the course pursued by Mr. Young, the whig candidate for Governor, in reference to Brooklyn ferries—while Mr. Y. had a seat and some influ- ence in the Legislature. That influence was on every occasion exerted in such a manner  25 as to  prejudice the claims—the rights—of this city. We understand indeed, that no other M. L. was so bitter against us as this same gentleman; and it was not at all from
any lack of his activity to quash our claims, that we did not succeed. . . . . . . . . . . . It is well  known  that  this  question  of  our  Ferry  Rights  is  one  of  vital  importance  to Brooklyn.  It  is  in  the  highest  degree  necessary  to  our  increase  in  wealth  and  30 population, that we should have something in the neighborhood of Justice, at least, on that question. And it is also well known that there is an expressed determination on the part of certain persons, and a portion of the government, in New York city, to contest
the rights of Brooklyn, under the New Law—and to sue for an alteration of it. What chance would Brooklyn have, with Mr. Young’s influence as Governor cast directly in  35 the scale of opposition to us? Is it forgotten by the Brooklyn Whigs that they them- selves are in this matter, interested against that gentleman?





October 21, 1846

40

The New Constitution


Offers sufficient inducements to demand the universal favor of the Democratic party,
in two parts of its scope alone,—if none others—though it assuredly has others. The  45
parts we allude to are those restraining the State moneys from being appropriated to

94	  


sectional purposes, and prohibiting State debts. . . . . . We don’t see how any liberal- minded press can electioneer against the New Constitution.




5
October 21, 1846



Free Exhibitions of Works of Art


We have often wished that the severe economy of our forms of government in this
10    country were susceptible of being stretched in such a way as to make them aid the free
exhibition of works of art—paintings, statuary, &c. We think the happiest effects might
be expected from such a course. For the influence of beautiful works of art pervades
the minds, and in due time the actions and character, of all who come in contact with
them. What, for instance, might not be anticipated from the invisible spirit emanating
15    from the perpetual presence of such great and beautiful works as are now met with at
Florence, at Rome, and in Paris?—what from such a thing as that immortal spire of the
Antwerp Cathedral?—what from the divine architecture of the world-famed church at
Rome? And all public exhibitions of paintings, statuary, &c., diffuse more or less of the
refinement and spiritual elegance, which are identified with art. . . . . . . . . . . We have
20    been led into such thought as this, by noticing in the N. Y. prints an announcement, this
morning (21st) that the Gallery of Statues belonging to the National Academy, corner of
Broadway and Leonard streets, has been opened to the public for a few days, free of
charge. We wish that such liberality were a more frequent thing in this section. We
would that the National Academy were so endowed that they could make their exhibi-
25    tions perpetually free. Is there no hope of a consummation so much to be wished for?





October 21, 1846
30


Notices of New Books


WATER   CURE,   IN     CHRONIC    DISEASES:  an  Exposition  of  the  Causes,  Progress  and Termination of the various Chronic Diseases of the Digestive Organs,  Lungs, Nerves, Limbs, and Skin; and of their treatment by Water, and other  Hygienic
35	means. By James M. Gully, M.D., &c &c Wiley & Putnam.
The publishers of this work deserve the good will of the whole community—of
all who have ‘bowels of compassion’ for the pangs inflicted by that in some respects
worst of diseases—or rather tangle of diseases—dyspepsia. In this book, Dr. Gully has
treated that disease in all its beginnings, and progress—and cure too. . . . . . . . . . . . 
40    We shall make extracts from the work to-morrow.

A TREATISE  ON  ALGEBRA; containing the latest improvements. Adapted to the use of Schools and Colleges. By Charles W. Hackley, S. T. D., Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy, Columbia College, N. Y. Harpers, Cliff st.
45	The title of this work indicates its object. The author states that object to have
‘‘simply been, by any and all means, to make the best book, without aiming so much at
individual reputation as at the author ’s own convenience, and that of others, devoted,

  	95


like himself, to the noble task of guiding the youthful votaries of science.’’ . . . . . . It is printed in very handsome style.

COLUMBIAN   MAGAZINE, For November. Israel Post, 140 Nassau st., N. Y.
This is rather below the average of the Columbian’s usual talent. We advise the	5
editor to put more substance in its pages. It is a mistake to suppose the American ladies
satisfied with mere ‘light reading’ alone.

REASONS for refusing to consecrate a Church having an Altar instead of a Communion
Table; &c. By Charles P. McIlvaine.	10
This is a little book for sale in this city by A. M. Wilder, 57 Fulton st. We don’t
know any thing about its merits.





October 22, 1846

15

Death of Thomas Clarkson


    The  Caledonia  brings  us  tidings  of  the  death  of  the  Philanthropist,  Thomas Clarkson, whose labors for the Abolition of the Slave Trade and of Slavery for more  20 than half a century have rendered his name venerated.





October 23, 1846

25
Preparations


    On the First Page of our paper to-day will be found an article on the subject of organization, in reference to the coming election. We particularly enjoin our friends hereabout not to be so sanguine of victory, as to neglect the usual precautions that  30 assure it. We should never be found sleeping, lest the enemy come upon us, while we sleep. We think that Kings County—once draw the votes out—is thoroughly Demo- cratic; but it wants the vote fully out. The Whigs run us hard—and we must not flag in
our efforts previous to the battle. We have, by all odds, a better personal County ticket than the Whigs—and ought to draw forth more spirit and enthusiasm than they.  35
Look, for instance, at our candidate for the Sheriffalty. Who will pretend to say, there is a fitter, more deservedly liked man in the County for that station? We must be allowed to add that the gentlemen on the Whig County ticket, don’t ‘begin’ to hold an equal place in public esteem with ours.
40




October 26, 1846


The Bugles Are Sounding
45

All through the State, in the Democratic ranks—and sounding, many of them, in a tone of clearness and buoyancy that augurs well for the result! Or, in other words, the

96	  


Democratic presses are, with certain exceptions, exhorting in a proper spirit the masses of our party to prepare for the battle of a week from to-morrow.
[Quotation omitted—27 1⁄2     ll.]

5



October 26, 1846


[Whittier Nearly Killed]


10		John G. Whittier, the poet, came near meeting with a fatal accident some days since. A gun in the hands of a boy went off, the charge of which passed through the face of Whittier, out at his neck.




15
October 27, 1846



[Brooklyn ‘‘Daily Advertiser’’]


The Advertiser, in its usual profound and witty style, has much to say about the
20    Democrats on our county ticket being such ‘‘lovers of office,’’ &c. &c. Cogitating on
that grave point, the Adv. tells us it lately went into the mysteries of a deep mathematical
problem;—it ‘‘began to reckon up the aggregate of years the gentlemen on the ticket
had held office, but gave it up after arriving at near half a century.’’ Charming ingenu-
ousness!  (Perhaps,  however,  the  A.  could’nt  count  any  higher.). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
25    The likelihood is that at the close of next Tuesday, one week from this day, (27th) the
Whig organ will achieve the same climax in respect to the election, which ended its
prodigious labors with the aforementioned ‘hard sum.’




30
October 27, 1846



Phonography


All who have heard of this new science are familiar with the name of Mr. Boyle,
35    the leading lecturer upon the subject in this country and the author of many Phono-
graphic elementary works. This gentleman is now preparing a class in one of our pub-
lic schools for examination in the Lyceum Hall, to afford our citizens an opportunity of
forming an opinion as to its utility. We understand that Mr. Boyle has been well
received  by  our  teachers;  before  whom  he  lectured  on  Saturday  much  to  their
40    gratification. Mr. Crittenden, the able Principal of our young and flourishing Female
Academy has secured the services of Mr. Boyle for a course of lectures. Two have
already been given, and the young ladies are said to have been highly pleased. We
yesterday afternoon attended his third lecture before the pupils of Public School No. 8,
in Middagh st.; and were very much struck with their progress in the new art. They
45    appeared  to  read  monosyllabic  sentences,  which  Mr.  B.  had  written  upon  the
blackboard,  with  great  apparent  ease.  Phonography,  or  the  art  of  expressing  the

  	97


sounds in our language by an appropriate character for each, we consider to be one of the greatest desiderata of the age, in a literary point of view; and if it could be generally adopted would be the means of saving an infinite deal of labor now thrown away in the operation of recording thoughts. The only means of making it general is to teach it
in our elementary schools. It is to be hoped that our Board of Education will attach	5
that importance to the subject which it really merits. We understand that phonography
is generally taught in the schools of Boston and Albany. In about two weeks it is the
intention of Mr. Boyle, who is located in New York, and entirely engaged in pub-
lishing and teaching the system of Mr. Pitman, to issue a weekly newspaper to be
printed in phonotyphic character. In England there are already some half a dozen  10
journals similarly printed. This subject is one of vital consequence to the literary world,
but like all new things phonography is obliged to struggle in order to obtain an
existence.

15



October 28, 1846


$100 Reward


    Strayed, lost, stolen, or hidden, all the principles, aims, objects and intentions of  20 the Whig candidate to the Gubernatorial office, to be voted for at the election next Tuesday. As it is of the utmost importance to know something more about the said candidate, (the little which is already known being any thing in the world, except favorable)  the  above  reward  is  offered  to  any  body  who  will  bring  irrefragable specimens of said candidate’s principles. The reward, (in the usual way,) to be paid  25 upon ‘conviction.’





October 28, 1846

30
[The ‘‘Advertiser’’]


    ‘‘Undertake to help’’ the Advertiser mountain ‘‘to bring forth that mouse,’’ quotha, Sir Whig organ? Yes, sir! Only tell us which mouse—for, by’r ink-stand! you have so extensive a progeny in that hue, it were well to get a word more definite!	35





October 28, 1846


Free Trade Men!	40


    Now, men of Brooklyn who feel the truth—one of the greatest and noblest in the Democratic code—that ‘prohibition’ and ‘protection’, and all unneccessary bars to trade, are against the true spirit of freedom—now we call upon you to espouse the ticket presented to you at the editorial head of this paper! We are not afraid to say in  45 the most open manner that the Democracy of this section go into the coming contest
    
98	  


with the avowment of opposition to prohibitive or protective tariffs, and to laws which stand as obstacles in the way of trade between community and community, or between man and man.




5
October 28, 1846



Notices of New Books


MORNING  AND EVENING  EXERCISES  FOR  THE  CLOSET,  FOR   EVERY  DAY  IN  THE  YEAR.—By
10	the Rev. Wm. Jay, of Argyle Chapel, Bath. Harpers, N. Y.
‘‘Never be without a book in daily reading, of a direct scriptural and devotional
tendency,’’ is the appropriate motto on the title page of this large and truly useful
work. There is no doubt of the deep, though unpretensive sway exercised by such
daily communings with the religious spirit—as would be involved in the proper use of
15    these ‘Exercises’.—The style appears to be flowing and easy—and it is, of course,
sober and grave.

Virtue’s Illustrated FAMILY   BIBLE.  Nos. 33 and 34. Geo. Virtue, 26 John st., N. Y.
The  first of  these  Nos.  has  a  print  of  ‘the  River  Jordan,’—and  the  second  a
20    remarkably fine one of ‘Boaz and Ruth.’ The typography, paper, &c. are of the most
choice description.

MYRTIS, with other Etchings and Sketchings. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney. Harpers, N. Y.
We cannot say we are admirers of Mrs. Sigourney’s ‘school’ of writing—(we
25    prefer not to call it poetry.) This work, ‘Myrtis’ is made up, however, of prose pieces.
The book is very tastily printed, indeed.





30    October 29, 1846


‘‘Amphibious Whigs’’


The Brooklyn Whig organ has a new term, wherewith it whips a good (or rather
bad) portion of its faction—‘‘amphibious Whigs.’’ If by that phrase is meant Whigs
35    who can dive to expediency, swim with any passing current that promises to ‘pay,’
crawl (on dry land) among the vile places, and ‘make tracks’ for office—we think the
Advertiser’s new phrase will include quite all the Whig leaders and bugle blowers, here
or elsewhere. . . . . . . . . . . . . . And, now we think of it, the term is a good term and a
most fit term. The Whigs are the most ‘amphibious’ of politicians the world ever saw!
40




October 29, 1846

45


[‘‘The Natives’’]

    Our Whig friends having repudiated their matrimonial contract with the Natives, the Advertiser had an editorial yesterday, ‘‘Who wants a wife?’’ . . . . . . . . . . . . Not
    
  	99


we Democrats, good Sir Whig! the blushing feminine has lost not only her chastity, but she ‘won’t pay,’ as you yourself complained, erewhile.





October 30, 1846

5

Don’t ‘Flunk’!


We hope no consideration at all will induce our Democratic friends in this quarter
to ‘dodge’ any point presented to them, in reference to the coming election. Let us be  10
bold, fearless, and open-browed! Have we not a noble cause to work for—a master
spirit to lead us—and all glory waiting for us in the future? Have we not every
probability of triumph, if we only do our duty? And that duty involves that we
should stick to our principles, and proudly acknowledge them as ours—ours amid
victory, and ours amid defeat! . . . . . . . . . . . Leave it for Whig candidates to truckle  15
and cloak their doctrines, (if they have any) in a mist of ‘mummery’! Ours is a higher
more manly course!





October 30, 1846

20

Cutting Down Those Wages


We are credibly informed that out of the one hundred and fifty workmen employed
in the White Lead Factories of Brooklyn, the wages of the regular workmen have not  25
been lowered at all, nor is there any probability of such lowerment. It is true, however,
that some forty or fifty of the laborers, (whose work can be done without ‘learning the
trade,’ and is therefore open to competition from any one who has stout limbs) have
been ‘cut down’ twelve and a half cents, per day—by which the economically disposed
poor manufacturers will save the enormous sum of $37 1⁄2     per week! We hope the  30
country may now be considered safe! . . . . . . . . . . . . We will not enlarge on the noble
conduct of docking one shilling from each poor laborer ’s earnings—which, serious a
matter as it is to the poor man, is absolutely nothing to these rich manufacturers. We
will, however, take the occasion to pay a humble tribute of awe to the genius which
could invent such a ‘‘good enough till after election’’ plan for forming a sort of infant panic.  35
. . . . . . . . . . Avaunt! tricksters! the people and we see through you, ‘like a book’!





November 2, 1846

40
Some Last Words


    A  parting  word  ere  the  battle  is  joined.  If  there  ever  was  a  time  when  the Democratic party could enter heartily and zealously into a political contest, it is NOW! They have not only the most important political reforms to incite them, but the dignity  45 and efficiency of the civil institutions of the State are at stake. The party which has heretofore deluded the electors by a pretended attachment to LAW AND ORDER, is
    
100	  


openly in the field, with a candidate whose hope of success mainly depends upon his supposed sympathy with a spirit of social disorganization and rebellion against the laws of the State which has already resulted in murder—which has called for the intervention of military force—and which after casting an indelible stigma upon our
5    fair fame, is eagerly watching its opportunity of mischief under cover of a more friendly alliance than the present administration of the State!
    It is vain to attempt to deceive the people by false pretences. The fact blazes like the hand writing upon the wall, that John Young was chosen in place of Millard Fillmore, in order to make friends with that ‘‘mammon of unrighteousness,’’ the law-defiance of the anti-
10    rent districts.
The  course  of  Silas  Wright  upon  this  dangerous  subject—his  prudence  and
firmness in vindicating the laws, and in arresting the progress of the pestilence, are
well known. If this energy and constancy in duty are to subject him to reproach and
downfall, farewell public gratitude!
15	We wish the minds of the people of Kings Co. to be turned upon this issue, and
this alone, in determining their votes upon the executive candidates. This, like Aaron’s
rod, swallows up all the rest. The magnanimous Whig party in this State is offering as its
grand champion and expositor, a man, who, whatever may be his undeclared views,
was adopted as their candidate because it was certain that he would propitiate the
20    most violent faction which has disgraced the State since laws were heard of in this
hemisphere—a faction which assumed the exterior (without emulating the justice) of
Indians, shot down the officers and defied the government of the State, till superior
force brought it to a temporary submission. Let the people of the State themselves judge
whether these Indians shall again raise their fiendish cries, their fires blaze forth anew,
25    and the blood of legal functionaries again be shed. They have only to-morrow to
determine, and we hope the violence of ‘‘party spirit’’ will not mislead them from
judging correctly.




30
November 2, 1846



Action


There is no time for delay. Only one day will elapse before the election. Every
35    Democrat should make preparations for it a matter of personal concern. Our oppo-
nents are preparing actively, laboriously, constantly, and thoroughly. Let Democrats
emulate the zeal of their adversaries, in this respect. Remember Pennsylvania has been
lost SOLELY through apathy and neglect. Let no proper measure be omitted by the
Democrats of Brooklyn, as far as in them lies, to prevent such a result in New York.
40    With energy, vigilance and activity, VICTORY IS CERTAIN.





November 2, 1846
45


Close Up Your Ranks!


    Now, Democrats of Kings County! now, close up your ranks and prepare for the contest. Let each individual define his share of the duty of his part, and then see that
    
  	101


no part of it is left unfulfilled. In the disarray of parties, individual action will count, in this election, more than on any former occasion. There seldom has been an opportunity afforded in which the ardent, devoted, true men of the party, could effect more by personal exertion than now. The young Democrats who have struggled for years in the cause of reform, who have realized every hope, and whose attachment to the great	5 and good man at the head of our ticket has been testified by former sacrifices and by ardent devotion, have now the opportunity, the glorious and long desired occasion, of crowning  him  with  a  noble  triumph.  Let  Democrats  but  act  up  to  the  generous impulses that inspire them, and they will win the most substantial of victories. Let but each individual who is true to the cause be alive to the magnitude of the occasion, and  10 success is beyond every contingency. No matter what Treason has devised and is about
to carry into execution; no matter what a profligate coalition may threaten; no matter what corruption and intrigue may effect—IF THE TRUE MEN OF THE PARTY, if these be faithful and unflinching, and be awake to the occasion, be ready for exertions commensurate
with it, there will be no danger of the result!	15





November 2, 1846


Fear Avaunt!	20


    If we have any drowsy despondent men in our ranks, we tell them to shake off their despondency. Victory is ours if we but will it. All we have to do, is to see that every Democrat deposits his ballot, and all is safe. A full vote secures our victory. New York State will, most undoubtedly, retain the post of honor she has so long  25 enjoyed under Democratic rule. Democrats, to retain our position, however, we must
not slumber. If you must sleep, do so after the laurels are won. The judgment of the people of this State is made up.

30



November 2, 1846


[The ‘‘Advertiser’’]


The Advertiser writes another communication to itself, and signs it ‘‘An Irish born  35
citizen,’’ again. It tries to be a ‘‘good enough Irishman till after election’’—and speaks
of its errors in orthography and syntax as a proof of its claim to Emerald birth. Bless its
soul! if those formed a fair claim, it would be Irish every day, and in every paragraph!

40



November 2, 1846


[The ‘‘Advertiser’’]


    We would compromise with the Advertiser’s accusation against us, that we have  45 penetrated its design to personate the ‘‘blundering Irishman.’’ As far as the ‘‘blunder- ing’’ part goes, we confess it succeeds to a hair. But as far as the shrewdness, the candor, the real Irish heartiness, are concerned, the mask makes a total failure.
    
102	  




November 3, 1846


A Single Vote


Few people estimate the value and importance of a single vote.
5	One vote sent Oliver Cromwell to the long Parliament. Little thought the holder of
that vote that his hand was to send Charles Stuart to the scaffold, and convulse an
empire with revolution.
One vote elected Marcus Morton Governor of Massachusetts in 1841, out of an
aggregate vote of 100,000.
10	One vote filled the vacancies in the State Senate in 1843, and again secured the
election of Marcus Morton as Governor.
Four votes given in the Fifth Ward of the City of New York made Thomas Jefferson
President of the United States.
One vote repealed the Tariff of 1842.
15	Who then can say that one vote can make no difference, and that his own is not the
will whose expression shall finally turn the chances of the lot? One vote, like a drop of
water, may be insignificant of itself and alone, but combined with myriads of others
may determine the destiny of a nation.—‘‘Divide the thunder into single tones,’’ says
Schiller, ‘‘and it becomes a lullaby for children; but pour it forth in one quick peal, and
20    the royal sound shall shake the heavens!’’





November 4, 1846
25


Local Intelligence
[Election Day]


    It is almost unnecessary to tell our readers that yesterday, ‘election day,’ proved one of the wettest, sloppiest, drizzliest times ‘what ever was.’ The contest, however,
30    was carried on with great ardor, in spite of the clouds, showers, and mud. We have seldom seen our Democratic workers more spirited—and we give them thanks, in the name of the party, for their unintermitted efforts! . . . . . . . And in the midst of all that warmth and ardor, we rejoice to be able to state that there were no riots or disturbances at all, beyond the argumentative ones which, on such occasions, are to be
35    heard wherever three or four are met together. All passed off in such a manner as to increase the pride which every true American has in observing the workings of our institutions! . . . . . . In the course of the evening our Democratic head quarters were thronged with people to hear the returns; and it is almost superfluous to add that Mr. Murphy’s success was hailed by the Democrats of Brooklyn with many a hearty ‘three
40    times three.’





November 5, 1846
45


Our Defeat in the State


    Well; it seems to be generally agreed, now, that John Young is the Governor elect of the Empire State—a proud honor which any man, however high his ambition,
    
  	103


might be satisfied with. Speculations on the causes of this result—on the causes of the immense vote for Mr. Young, and the defection from Gov. Wright—we reserve for another time, and an early one. For the present, we content ourself with the remark, that, when a party is defeated it is always profitable to look what reasons there are for that defeat in the preceding action of the party itself. This is better, far better, than to find fault	5 with ‘the people.’





November 5, 1846

10
Morbid Appetite for Money


    In the course of an article on the subject of the influence of wealth, &c., in one of our exchange papers, we find this sentiment:

‘‘Poverty—poverty, in the common acceptation of the term—is a thing dreaded by mankind,  15
and is often placed among the catalogue of crimes. Such is the poverty that fellowships with rags
and beggary. But there is another species of poverty, the most despicable that can be imagined,
and more to be dreaded than all other earthly ills and maladies combined. We mean the poverty
of  soul, with which rich men are often afflicted, and the only poverty to be  abhorred  and
despised. Men who oppress and cheat the poor—men who make wealth the standard of worth  20
and  respectability—men who make gold their god, and whose devotions consist of  Dollar-
Worship, are the self-made victims of this poverty of soul, compared to which  destitution  is a
Heaven  sent blessing.’’

    —On no particular matter is the public mind more unhealthy than the appetite for money.  The  wild  schemes  of  visionary  men—the  religious  excitements  of  misled  25 enthusiasts—the humbugs of ignorant pretenders to knowledge—the quackery of the thousand  imposters  of  all  descriptions  who  swarm  through  the  land—have  their followers and believers for a time; though the weakness which always attends error soon carries them to oblivion.—They glitter for a moment—swim for a day on the tide
of public favor—and then sink to a deserved and endless repose. But the mad passion  30 for getting rich does not die away in this manner. It engrosses all the thoughts and the time of men. It is the theme of all their wishes. It enters into their hearts and reigns paramount there. It pushes aside the holy precepts of religion, and violates the purity
of justice. The unbridled desire for wealth breaks down the barriers of morality, and leads to a thousand deviations from those rules, the observance of which is necessary  35 to the well-being of our people. It is that, and nothing else, which has led to the commission of those robberies of the public treasury that have in years past excited the astonishment and alarm of the American nation. It is the feverish anxiety after riches, that leads year after year to the establishment of those immense moneyed institutions, which have so impudently practised in the face of day, frauds and violations of their  40 engagements, that ought to make the cheek of every truly upright man burn with indignation.  Reckless  and  unprincipled—controlled  by  persons  who  make  them complete  engines  of  selfishness—at  war  with  everything  that  favors  our  true interests—unrepublican, unfair, untrue, and unworthy—these bubbles are kept afloat
solely and wholly by the fever for gaining wealth. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
The same unholy wish for great riches enters into every transaction of society, and
more or less taints its moral soundness. And from this it is that the great body of the

104	  


working-men should seek to guard themselves. Let them not think that the best thing on earth, and the most to be desired, is money. For of all the means necessary to happiness, wealth is at least a secondary one; and yet all of us tacitly unite in making it the main object of our desire.—For it we work and toil, and sweat away our youth and
5    manhood, giving up the improvement of our minds and the cultivation of our physical nature; weakly thinking that a heap of money, when we are old, can make up to us for these sacrifices. And yet when we see the universal homage paid to the rich man, it appears not very wonderful that people are so greedy for wealth. But let us think again, of what avail, or of what true gratification is that respect which is paid merely to
10    money? Is it to win this at the last—to hear men admire—and listen to the deferential accents of the low—for which hundreds plod on, and on, and on—making that which was intended as the pleasantest part of our journey here, a burden or a useless waste? Is it to gain these ends that men fritter away the sweet spring and summer of their lives, sinking premature wrinkles into their brows, closing their hearts to the sweet
15    promptings of nature to enjoy; and finding themselves, at an advanced stage of their existence, with abundance of wordly means for happiness, but past the legitimate season for it? Foolish and miserable error! All the time of such men is devoted to their one great aim; and all their fear is that they may be poor. Want of wealth is, in their idea, the greatest of miseries. They look abroad into the world, and their souls seem to
20    grasp at but one object—filthy lucre. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Now let us be more just to our own nature. Let us cast our eyes over this beautiful
earth, where so much of fair joy, of pure happiness, of grandeur, of love, of sunshine,
exist; looking on the human race with the gentle orbs of benevolence and philosophy;
sending our glance through the cool and verdant lanes—by the sides of the blue
25    rivers—over  the  busy  and  crowded  city—among  those  who  dwell  far  on  the
prairies—or along the green savannahs—or where the monarch of rivers pours his
dark tide into the sea; and we shall see poor men every where; and we shall see that
those men are not wretched because they are poor; and we shall see that if they were to
prove luckier than they have been, and were to become rich, they would not be better
30    men—or happier men. And many of the most truly great men that ever lived, have
been poor—have passed their days in the vale—and never had their names sounded
abroad by applauding mouths. Silent and unknown—enjoying the treasures of soul
inherent within them—superior to the common desire for notoriety—they have lived
and died in obscure stations. The world heard not of them—statues were not built to
35    them—nor domes consecrated to them—nor cities honored with being named after
them. But they were nevertheless of characters really sublime and grand: not the
grandeur of common heroes, but the grandeur of some mighty river, existing in a part
of the world as yet undiscovered, holding its broad course through untrodden banks,
and its capacious riches not open to the world.
40




November 5, 1846

45


Notices of New Books

NOTES  ON  THE   NORTHWEST, OR, THE   VALLEY  OF  THE   MISSISSIPPI. By W. J. A. Bradford.
Wiley & Putnam.
Public attention here is so widely turned—for various reasons—to the West and
Northwest, that this book will doubtless be very extensively sought after. Besides

  	105


making an interesting volume for the general reader, it is, ‘‘though not strictly a guide, yet more useful to the emigrant than a book of mere details can be, by imparting to him those general ideas of the country, which will be always of no less value than a knowledge of minute particulars in relation to certain places.’’
5
Schiller ’s THIRTY   YEARS’  WAR.  Harpers, N.  Y.
Well-known and highly approved as this work is among scholars of quite all
countries, it is somewhat singular than an edition has been so long wanted here. The
Harpers, in their publication, have of course supplied the want; and as the book is
cheap, and well-printed, it is not too much to say that they have well supplied it. . . . . It  10
forms one number of the New Miscellany—an excellent series of selections, by the by,
which we recommend to the special attention of our reading friends. It includes an
agreeable variety of works in almost all the departments of literature, except novels.

DOMBEY   &   SON.  By Chas. Dickens. Wiley & Putnam.	15
Uniform with their ‘Books which are books,’ Wiley & Putnam are issuing this new
Tale of Dickens. It strikes us as promising something of the real Dickens sort—the
Nickleby and Twist style;—something much better than his later larger works.

SARTOR  RESARTUS.  By Thos. Carlyle. Wiley & Putnam.	20
This has all of Mr. Carlyle’s strange wild way;—and all his fiery-breath and
profundity of meaning—when you delve them out. It is well printed—like the whole
of the ‘Library of Choice Reading,’ of which it forms the 74th number.

HOCHLEGA; OR   ENGLAND  IN  THE   NEW   WORLD.  Edited by Eliot Warburton, Author of   25
the ‘‘Crescent and the Cross.’’ Wiley & Putnam.
One thing about this book recommends itself to special notice; and that is involved
in the author ’s remark in the preface, when he says: ‘‘This work, whatever else it may
be, is work: it contains no hastily-written crude impressions, but the deeply-tested
convictions of an earnestly inquiring mind.’’. . . When we consider the difference  30
between this, and the monotonous affectation of modesty in so many prefaces—the
reader being specially requested to ‘excuse bad writing as the writer is in haste,’ &c., it
surely is something, indeed, to see an author willing to take the deliberate responsibil-
ity of his production. . . . . . . . . . . . We have marked extracts from ‘Hochlega.’
35
PICTORIAL   HISTORY   OF   ENGLAND. No. 11.  Harpers.
The opinion is expressed very freely, and by good judges, that this History, as a
true clear comprehensive Narrative, will vie with any of the Standard Works of the
time.  As  a  specimen  of  typography  and  the  art  of  wood-engraving,  it  certainly
deserves to rank high, also.	40





November 6, 1846


O, That ‘‘Odious Law’’!	45


    The N. Y. Sun thinks, (or professes to think) that ‘‘The repeal of the Sub-Treasury law will probably be one of the first acts of Congress, next month.’’. . . . . . Is any one of our readers unaware what the ‘Sub-Treasury law’ exactly is? It is a law which places
    
106	  


the funds of the people, under the control of sworn officers, barred from the possibility of fraud by the most stringent checks and securities—instead of loaning it to ‘pet’ banks, to issue and amplify on the strength of it. It is a law that, (after a certain period named,) the Government shall neither receive, nor pay out to its creditors, any thing but
5    real money, gold and silver—instead of, as under the old plan, being art and part in the rag-system of the day, by taking all sorts of bank paper, and circulating the same in its payments. This is the plain sum and substance of this ‘‘odious Sub-Treasury law.’’ Quite all the other governments in the civilized world, that have any money to keep, keep it, (and have kept it from time immemorial) in the way proposed by the New
10    Law. How they would laugh at the idea of managing their money at worse than second hand, as the U. S. have managed theirs! (It is a slang argument among the Whigs that we ought not to keep money safely, as monarchies keep theirs: they might as well ask the President not to live in a house, because the Czar of Russia does.)
No, Mr. Sun! No! The clamor which is raised by the selfish, the ignorant, and the
15    timid, will produce no effect on the determination of true Democrats, at all and any
effort or task, to divorce State from Bank. With that measure, we stand or fall. Up or
down, we will never desert it.




20
November 6, 1846



Self-Advancement, &c.


We yesterday wrote at considerable length, on the subject of the great passion in
25    this country for money-getting,—and tried to show the true view which we should take
of what is called ‘‘being poor.’’ We would continue (for the two are not inconsistent)
our train of thought by inculcating a better spirit, or rather, directing the other spirit in
better and truer channel, a method of developement eminently worthy and commend-
able, but which is foolishly neglected by the majority of men. We speak of unlimited
30    self-improvement,  whether  in  a  person’s  trade,  in  morals,  in  science  or  in  general
knowledge. Next to obeying the generally received rules of government, the first duty
of a good citizen is self-improvement. Every one owes it to himself to cultivate those
powers which God has given him—either in himself, or has placed under his charge—
the powers of the mind. For every human soul is full of mighty agencies, beautiful
35    thoughts, glorious capabilities, mysterious promptings and capacities to enjoy, which
education only can bring forth to the light. Unless they are thus brought forth, they lie
entombed forever in darkness, and their possessors die and are buried without the
world ever thinking of them but as ignorant men. We say every human is capable (to a
certain degree) of having these things brought out; and we mean exactly what we say.
40    That man, young or old, who lives from day to day without advancing himself in
knowledge—or that man who lets his children grow up without right cultivation—
does a very foolish and a guilty thing. What would you think of a person who should
possess a most precious jewel, or many jewels, in their rough state, which a little polish
would brighten,—a gem flashing like the sunshine, or a ruby glistening like fire; and
45    the foolish owner should lay it by, and let it shed its brightness unnoticed in his cellar
or his garret? But every human being is owner of something far beyond the brightest
bauble that ever glittered on an emperor ’s head, or flashed from a noble’s coronet. The
human mind is uncalculably more precious than pearls, or diamonds, or rubies. It is far
more wonderful, and its lustre is greater than the lustre of the stars.

  	107


    He who is ambitious of the name of worthy citizen and true patriot should have higher aims than the commonly prevalent ones of the world. To educate himself, his family, and his dependents, is above all others, the vital object and duty of a good and wise man. One who sends into society a family of children, rightly trained, with sound minds, in sound and healthy bodies, is nobler than he who guides the armies of his	5 country to fame and triumph. The former deserves more honor, and has performed a more difficult task than the latter. For of all the duties which can devolve upon a man, none calls more wholly upon his powers and his attention, than correctly developing those wonderful and lovely capacities which are innate in the soul of every child. And
the  influence  of  a  number  of  individuals,  from  childhood  imbued  with  the  true  10
philosophic spirit, will be likely to bring more benefit to a nation than the victories of
its armies. For the power of the wise is great, and will be felt long after his death. When
he is laid in the grave, his example and his discoveries, and his writings, will continue
to exert their effect afar over the earth. There have been men—men self-improved—
whose influence will be felt forever—as long as the earth exists—though their names  15
must, from the lapse of time, pass away into the great gulf of shadows. Such men were
Newton, and Columbus, and Faust, and Bacon. Who can suppose that the wonders
which these distinguished persons brought to light, will ever again become hid? And
who can calculate the effect, direct and indirect, upon every circumstance in society
and in life, however minute, or however stupendous, which their performances now  20
have and will ever have?
Thus,  self-advancement,  which  every  man,  old  or  young,  mechanic,  man  of
business, or man of leisure, can pursue to a less or greater length if he chooses, ought to
be the great, as it is the best, aim of life. We care not in what particular channel men
educate themselves, or exert their powers of self-culture, so long as they keep clear of  25
vice, and useless fripperies. But without self-culture, in some way or other, a being of
intelligence,  when  he  comes  to  lay  down  his  head  to  the  last  slumber,  will  be
compelled to own that his life has been a useless one, and that neither the world or
individuals, are any the better from his having lived. All that we would ask is, that
men turn their attention, in a great measure at least, from this all-engrossing end of  30
money-getting, to something more rational, more noble, more pleasing to God, more
elevating, more purifying to the soul, less fitted for a lower grade of civilization, less
adapted to blunt the fineness of those beautiful moral faculties which our Father in
Heaven has given us. It is no matter what your powers are applied to by the self-
educating spirit. You will find them to answer for any thing. Whether in more perfectly  35
understanding and improving your particular trade or business—whether in becom-
ing acquainted with the motions of the earth and stars, and all the heavenly orbs—
whether in a knowledge of plants and flowers—whether in learning the languages of
other nations—whether in the ordinary branches of agriculture—whether in knowing
and applying the principles of mechanics—whatever it may be, the mind of any man  40
can acquire it more or less.





November 7, 1846

45
‘‘It Is Well’’


    It is useless to deny that Whiggery is having a great swing, about these times. It has gained handsomely in Pennsylvania and New York—retained a majority, though a
    
108	  


decreased one, in Ohio—carried New Jersey—and will doubtless carry Massachusetts. Besides this, it possesses a sometime elevation even in New Hampshire, the ‘Old Granite State’! . . . . . Sundry of our Democratic contemporaries either sulk about these facts, pass them by with as indefinite a mention as possible, or endeavor to argue that
5    in the face of the figures, the Whigs have not gained, nor ‘lifted up’ their prospects. But that is idle.
    For our own humble part however, we feel very calm and comfortable, and not a bit alarmed, about all this. We look down upon the hubbub, as on something that will subside in due time—time enough we fancy, to make the waves smooth for the
10    passage of a Democratic President into Port Inauguration in 1849. As to the exulting anticipations of the Whigs about their taking the upper hand for the future, we laugh to scorn such phantom hopes! Not more vain were the joy of the consumptive, to whose life a frowning fate has fixed the narrow limit—not more delusive were his wild gayety at seeing the flush which he mistakes for the bloom of returning health, while it
15    really tokens the climax and decay of life,—than the merriment of our Whig friends, in the elated hour of their current triumph. There is a brightness to the expiring, as well as to the newly lighted candle.




20

November 7, 1846




Perpetuity of the Democratic Spirit


25		The Democracy of this country never can be overthrown. The true Democratic spirit is endued with immortal life and strength. Our star glitters far above; clouds may now and then pass under it—but there it shines undimmed and untouched, and there it will shine, when the factions who decry it with all, that belongs to them, shall be remembered as the creatures of a day, and the offspring of corruption. Nor can the
30    Democratic party become essentially corrupt, either. For true Democracy has within itself a perpetual spring of health and purity. In its very nature it is at war with all selfishness and wickedness. It tempts no man or body of men with sinecures or swelling  salaries.  On  the  contrary,  its  defenders  often  have  to  bear  odium  and reproach; they are the marks at which wealthy insolence and supercilious pride level
35    many an arrow. The leading spirits of the Democratic faith are always in advance of the age; and they have, therefore, to fight against old prejudices. The contest they engage in does not call for brute courage, but moral courage—courage that can sustain unappaled and without giving up, the hate of enemies, the lukewarmness of friends, the ridicule and malice of many a flippant popinjay who thinks himself of better clay
40    than ordinary men. Why what had Jefferson, the Columbus of our political faith, to encounter? If we are to believe the chronicles of the past, he underwent, during what was called the ‘reign of terror,’ the most provoking indignities both personal and political. Leading republicans were at that time taunted and hooted at in the streets. No one, we have the authority of Jefferson himself for saying, can realize the afflicting
45    persecutions and insults they had to brook amid that gloomy period, the administra- tion of the older Adams. But resting on their own staunch, manly hearts, and defended by the breastplate of a righteous cause, they faltered not. Throwing to the winds all

  	109


fear, they came out before the people, incessantly teaching and expounding their doctrine, and openly proclaiming the falseness and injustice of their opponents’ creed. For their opponents had a creed. The result was that they triumphed. And we shall triumph. We stand here the inheritors of their principles and opposed to the same
foe—the foe of equal rights. Democracy must conquer again as it did then—and more	5
certainly than it did then. We think so from two simple facts. One is that the great body
of workingmen are more powerful and more enlightened now than they were in those
days. The other is, that there is a mighty and resistless energy throughout the length
and breadth of this nation, for going onward to the very verge with our experiment of
popular freedom.	10





November 7, 1846


15
Indian Life and Customs—

A True Subject for American Antiquarian Research

    While there are really few subjects that offer more interesting food to any one’s curiosity (and peculiarly so to people’s here,) than Indian life and past history—it is  20 singular to see that ‘the public’ will rush in crowds to hear Mr. Gliddon’s lectures on
the ancient Egyptians, while a baker ’s dozen only could be got together by the most graphic and authentic narrative of aboriginal matters. . . . . . It were a lucky thing could some itinerant author be found, willing to travel through wood and forest, over prairie and swamp, along the borders of rivers, and upon the bosom of lakes—in  25 short, amid any and every part of what is now the margin of our cultivated American territory at the west and north—and gather up the stories of the settlers, and the remnants of Indian legends which abound among them. Such would be the true and legitimate romance of this continent. Those of the old world frequently tell us we have
no fit themes for poetry and imagination here. Have we not, indeed? Have we no  30 memories of a race, the like of which never was seen on any other part of the earth— whose  existence  was  freedom—whose  language  sonorous  beauty?  Far,  far  in  the darkness of the times past, we may turn our fancy—and bring up the spectres of the Brown  Men,  with  their  stately  forms,  and  their  flashing  eyes,  and  their  calm demeanor—and say, Are these not proper subjects for the bard or the novelist? Who  35 can produce better? Europe may boast of her age of chivalry, and of the deeds of her knights and princes. She may point with exulting finger to her Richard of the Lion- Heart, and the crusades of his time—to the feudal glories, and the high emprise of many a doughty warrior. She may bid us walk amid the still standing walls of her old palaces—her  castles  and  moss  covered  fortresses—her  gothic  cathedrals,  and  the  40 thousand signs of a period long by-gone.—Let her do this. But we may think none the
less of what we can show in comparing relics. We may love the traditions of the hapless Indian—and cherish their names—and bestow those names on rivers, lakes, or states, more enduring than towering monuments of brass. We may delight in thinking over
the history of those that trod our familiar grounds, years ago when they were wild  45
forests—and in bestowing our meed of admiration for their good qualities, and pity
for their declined grandeur.

110	  


    For our part we confess that we would indeed foster such a spirit. We think it good to cultivate a taste for discussion and investigation about the earlier history of our native land—this mighty and beloved republic which we so fondly and fixedly believe will ere long stand without a rival among the nations of the earth. In the course
5    of events, it is but reasonable to suppose that not many seasons will recede, before every tangible representative of true Indian character shall have passed away from our sight. Indeed it is almost so now. The weakened, degraded, and effeminate beings who prowl in our frontier towns, make the name of their forefathers synonymous with disgrace. They are no more representatives of the old vigor of their species, than the
10    withered and puny plant that sickens in a hothouse, of the healthy bloom of  its parent, in that parent’s native plains.
    Then, the labor of ‘extending the area of freedom,’ into the confines of Indian territory, as the hardy Westerners have done! How few of us who live in great cities, know the trouble, risk, labor, and absolute danger to life itself, which attend the
15    settling of a community, on the far limits of civilization. A hundred Gorgon terrors surround the very hut where the adventurous family reside; away from any knowl- edge of what is going on in the outer world, and from any communion with their kind, they are hermits in solitude, without possessing the sacred shield from harm which is universally allowed and acknowledged to those lonely enthusiasts. The huge forest
20    trees for neighbors, and a visit from a chance traveller the only variety—they live in another world from our own, and though of kindred race with us, have very few pursuits in common. Yet there is a fascination in such an existence, after all. We believe all men of contemplative natures have agreed that no object in Nature is capable of generating more lofty, grand, and solemnly noble reflections, than an old and silent
25    forest. It is a beautiful idea—that of our own national poet—to call the wild, the primal and legitimate temple of worship to the Divinity—to say of the Child of Nature,

                ‘‘In the darkling wood, Amidst the cool and silence he knelt  down, And offered to the Mightiest,  solemn thanks
30	And  supplication. For his simple  heart Might not resist the sacred  influences That, from the stilly  twilight  of the place,
And  from the gray old trunks, that high in heaven
Mingled  their mossy boughs, and from the sound
35	Of  the invisible breath that swayed at once
All  their green tops, stole over him, and bowed
His  spirit with the thought of boundless power
And  inaccessible majesty!’’


40


November 7, 1846


[Miss Northall’s Concert]


45		Miss Northall’s concert at the Apollo saloon last evening was a bumper, and gave great delight to the auditory.

  	111




November 7, 1846


Slavery in Louisiana


    We have often thought that if the ultraism and officiousness of the Abolitionists had not been, the slave states at the south would have advanced much farther in the	5
‘cause of freedom’ to their slaves than they have advanced.—The abominable fanaticism of the Abolitionists has aroused the other side of the feeling—and thus retarded the very consummation desired by the A. faction. [Quotation omitted—20 ll.]

10



November 9, 1846


Initiatory Moves


    The Whigs at the East have ushered Daniel Webster before the country, as a  15 candidate  for  the  next  Presidency;  and  the  Whig  prints  hereabout,  in  giving  the proceedings of the meeting, (at Dover, N. H., Nov. 5,) evince such signs of favor as may
be inferred from placing the resolutions, &c. in a prominent position in their columns, putting Mr. Webster ’s name in big type, &c. There is something not to be overlooked in these ‘signs.’ There is, apparently, a disposition among the Federalists of various  20 grades—now united by a common hope, that of future victory—to bring out a man who is the real representative of the Conservatism of the Past—a man of High-Tariffs, Banks, and a Stiff-Handed Government. We welcome this disposition! We would be glad to see the enemies of Democracy throw down the open gage of battle, presenting true issues, and fighting under their undisguised colors!	25
    It is not that we expect the Whigs to join on Mr. Webster, by any means, as their candidate for the next Presidency. It is merely the token that their present action furnishes, of their feelings, objects and views, for the future. Such doctrines as Mr. Webster ’s, are the ones for them; and our word for it, the warmth of their present temporary triumph will ripen their avowal of such doctrines, as summer sun-shine  30 ripens the rank growth of weeds.





November 9, 1846

35
Working Women


    The evils and horrors connected with the payment, in this quarter of the country, for women’s labor—sewing, bookfolding, umbrella-work, etc. etc.—are a monotonous subject of complaint enough; and people are quite ready to say, It’s of no use to write  40 about that. But when we see how the continued, persevering, incessant, honest efforts
at reforming any old abuse, by means of newspaper-writing, at last succeed, (though the world, which seldom looks very deeply, is apt to give the credit to a later agent, and heeds not where the motion was given and what kept it up,) we are inclined to think that in this subject of poor pay for females’ work, good results would sooner or later  45 follow from the faithful adherence of the press to an advocacy of ‘the rights of women’

112	  


in the matter. Why, there are hundreds and hundreds of poor girls and women hereabout—and not a few in Brooklyn—who suffer the most shameful impositions from those who employ them to work. These girls and women make from fifty cents (!) to two dollars per week—very few in the neighborhood of the latter sum, however.
5    The price paid for making one of those heavy stout overcoats, such as our firemen wear, is but fifty cents, at the highest—and pantaloons and vests, (‘slop-work’) from six to fifteen cents! . . . . . . . . What remedy for this miserable system, we are not prepared to suggest; but the first thing is to make the public aware that it is an evil— and that it sows a prolific crop of other evils.
10




November 9, 1846

15


Criticism—New Books

    By an old and excellent custom—a custom good for the public, for the publishers of books, and for editors of newspapers—new works are presented to editors, that they may mention the same, and thus bring them before their readers. A newspaper that does not give such notice is ‘behind the age; ’ for brief as those notices generally
20    are, they enable a man to keep up with what is doing in the literary world, and to see the gradual steps made in the advancement of every thing. This is true—as any one will acknowledge after a moment’s reflection; for he who gets no inkling of any of the new developements constantly made, through books, (and he will get that inkling through honestly written book-notices,) lives quite in the Past. . . . . . The custom alluded to has
25    another good effect also—it enables editors to keep up, in some sort, with the foremost ones of the age. For though it cannot be expected that they will study from top to bottom every book they have—that skimming tact which an editor gets after some experience, enables him to take out at a dash the meaning of a book—and his paper and his readers are invariably the gainers by it. An editor thus surrounded by the
30    current literature of the age—by thoughts and facts evolved from master-minds, as well as imitators—cannot lag behind. In a thousand invisible but potent ways the result is good for his professional labors.
    As to the book-notices in this journal, we hope to say nothing amiss, when we say that our readers lose something when they lose the reading of them. They are our
35    candid opinions; leaning, as we prefer to lean, to a kindly vein—as it is not our province to ‘cut up’ authors. . . . . . (A new book was sent us the other day with a highly eulogistic written notice, to be inserted as editorial. We can’t do such things.)
. . . . .  It certainly were no compliment to the taste of Brooklynites, to assume that they feel no interest in literary matters.
40




November 9, 1846

45


The ‘Domestic Circle’

    Whatever may be the cares and mishaps of married life, it is probably undeniable that ‘if there’s bliss to be found on the earth,’ (a questionable find!) it must be in the
    
  	113


domestic circle. Think of this, bachelors! as the ‘best and greatest’ men, have settled it to be a fact! . . . . . . The bad thing is, that people see the worst phases of married life— as those are apt to make themselves prominent; while the real quiet enjoyment—the true coy comfort, that loves to nestle in quiet—‘make no declarations for the public
eye.’ How many blissful hours must be spent by fathers, in the blessedness of the mere	5 presence of affectionate children! How much of happiness is going on—(a cheerful thought that almost cancels the sad evidence of misery we see towering on every side!)—that is dreamed of by no mortal mind—seen by no mortal eye—except the few participants in it. . . . . . There is a little sonnet of a light-hearted but sad-fated man—
the poet Hood—which touches on the string of this theme:	10

The  world is with me, and its many cares—
Its  woes—its wants—the anxious hopes and fears
That  wait on all terrestrial affairs—
The  shades of former and of future years—
Quelling  a spirit that was once elate.	15
Heavens!  what a wilderness the earth appears,
Where youth, and mirth, and health, are out of date !
But  no—a laugh of innocence and joy
Resounds  like music of the fairy race,
And,  gladly turning from the world’s annoy,	20
I  gaze upon a little radiant face,
And  bless, internally, the merry boy
Who  makes a son-shine in a shady place.


25



November 9, 1846


Liberty in France


    The governors of that country seem to have but imperfect notions of political  30 right. The Chamber of Deputies lately vacated the seat of a member, because he pledged himself to a portion of electors, before they voted, that he would advocate, if elected, an extension of suffrage to taxpayers, economy of expense, &c. By the last accounts,  it  is  stated  that  ‘‘the  radical  and  republican  party  at  Le  Mans  having proposed  to  dine  together,  to  celebrate  their  victory  of  the  recent  election,  the  35 government has positively forbidden the dinner to take place; and of course it will not
be given.—Such is liberty in France.’’






November 10, 1846

40


Don’t Be Frightened, Democrats!


The N. Y. Sun wants us to look to our chart, ‘count the figures,’ and see how the  45
Democratic  party  ‘swim.’  We  do  so—and  behold  nothing  to  discourage  us  from
advocating such a noble true reform as is involved in the Independent Treasury.—We

114	  


see in past times Democratic victories surely gained, (sooner or later,) where principle has been adhered to in the face of defeat. . . . . . The Sun points us to 1840. We have no objection to view that point—as it has a bearing on 1844, too. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We hope the present elation of Whiggery will not induce a single Democratic press,
5    leader or captain, to compromise one jot or tittle of liberal doctrines.—‘‘The summer friend and sunshine patriot shrink in such a crisis; ’’ but he who takes large views, will see the greater necessity of unflinching adherence to his cause!



10

November 10, 1846
A Developement of Court-Life in Europe—
The Two Royal Marriages
15
    Even at this distance from the scene of action, there is no small interest felt in the marriages of the young Queen of Spain, and of her still younger sister, the Infanta Maria Louisa. The Britannia’s foreign news (which we gave yesterday) states the consummation of the marriage; and it is settled as far as royalty allows those things
20    to be settled—that is to say until paramount reasons of state, disunite those who have been ‘joined together ’ in the name of the Highest heavenly Power. And we could, perhaps, hardly satisfy our readers better (for the space it occupies,) than to glean from the foreign papers a tolerably full account of the circumstances connected with these matches—intimately blended as they are, not only with affairs of state, but with affairs
25    that come home to the ‘business and bosoms’ of every man and woman—every lad and lass—in the world. It is not unprofitable, too, for a republican to read such things— to read of a large, civilized, tolerably rich nation, subjected to the most dirty machinery of a court, the centre whereof is a poor child, only sixteen years old, brought up partly under the control of a vile licentious mother, partly under that of a coarse lying govern-
30    ess, and much of the time surrounded by circumstances that must have drenched all the purity out of her, even as a child. It is profitable, we say, for us here to see how such things are managed in the courts of the continent of Europe—those courts to which the people there look for example, and for government. How degrading to all that is good and independent in our nature! How emasculating to the vigor and virtue of a nation,
35    to have such pestilential influences over and about it! Why we would rather see the party wrangles of this republic made ten times hotter—the extremes of excitement carried ten times farther—and let the land stand its chance under their action ten times oftener—than allow the moral air, circulating to every living one among us, to be tainted with one such deed as this manœuvered and most wicked Spanish marriage!
40    and have our people look up to it and those who do it! [Details of two marriages omitted—19 1⁄2     ll.]
Now all this, as to age, sounds prettily to the ear. But it is different in reality. The Child- Queen is forced into her marriage—the bridegroom being an ugly, stupid, unmanly fellow—with nothing, according to accounts, that a girl would wish for in a husband,
45    but with every thing to make the match, on personal considerations, an unhappy one: but she is fated, and has to bear the self-sacrifice. . . . . . The other marriage is not quite so bad—but is bad enough, still. It is a sort of fortune-hunting match on the part of the Frenchman. The little girl has a large sum of money; and will be heiress to the throne, if

  	115


her sister the present Queen dies without children, and everybody says she will possess no children. (Princes, it seems, have their tricks to play, like ordinary men.) But the Queen’s marriage is the dark feature of the whole transaction. [Quotation omitted—49 1⁄2     ll.]
    It sickens one quite, to think that thousands and millions of people—people	5 innate with the same generous and honest traits that mark the good of this, and every other, country,—are governed by a complicated tangle of which selfishness, treachery, sensuality, and depravity, make up so large a portion, and of which such doings as we have mentioned are the fruits. We can well afford—we of America—to hear without murmur the taunts of the artificial-trained ones of the Old World, at our roughness and  10 huskiness;  for  under  that  roughness  and  husk,  we  have  the  sound  heart,  the uncorrupted core of primal fresher soul, which would scout such a developement of moral rottenness as those courts sanction, with one unanimous, prompt, shrieking yell
of scorn, hate, and horror, so wild and high that the old fabric of royalty itself might come tumbling in ruins to the ground!	15





November 10, 1846


Free Night Schools	20


    We like the suggestion for Free Night Schools, for our Brooklyn youth, the ensuing winter—and hope it will be carried into prompt operation.

25



November 11, 1846



Frequency of Children’s Deaths
30

Divers of our contemporaries are saying that

‘‘The number of children born in the United States in a year is about 450,000. It is calculated that only one-half live to be 21 years old.’’

    That is, two hundred and twenty-five thousand human lives are cut off before  35 maturity—before they are fit to rationally enjoy life; for we cannot call the mere animal existence rational enjoyment. Then how horrible to reflect on the pain that must be endured, in connection with these early deaths, and the circumstances that lead to them, and prepare them! How tedious and dreary the substitution of sickness for the exuberance of health which should more appropriately be the ‘portion’ of youth!—  40
How dark the whole world must appear, even to the sight which should see little but sunshine and pleasantness! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . But the causes of these frequent and early deaths—what are they? Doubtless many are of an hereditary nature. But far the larger portion, we fancy, could be avoided by
proper treatment—by those means of health and comfort which any reasoning man  45 must acknowledge, but which, after all, so very few persons will put in force. Many of those who have charge of infants—the nurses and servants—are totally incapable of performing  their  duties  aright.  And  as  to  boys  and  girls,  from  babyhood  to  the

116	  


approach of maturity, their lives are beset on every side, (full as they are of the swelling stimulus of growth,) with danger—with poisonous habits, and wretched imitations. Thousands  and  thousands  of  youth  fall  victims  in  early  years  to  what  might  be avoided by the care and warning of judicious friends! And they are none the less
5    victims to the heedlessness of their early years, because the consequences of that heedlessness does not visit them till after years. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . It is absolutely appaling to reflect on the truth involved in the extract in the first part of our article, and which forms the starting point of our comments! Nor is it less painful to think of the miserable management of so many, even in their babyhood—implanting
10    evils in their make which all the ductility of youth and growth can hardly rub out. And how seldom we see a perfectly healthy child, or youth!





15    November 12, 1846


Case of People, vs. Paper


    When a gang of juvenile bullies go prowling about of a summer morning, and disposed for a fight, they haply meet an inoffensive little urchin, to whom the foremost
20    of the gang makes some such remark as, ‘‘Oho! you’re the fellow that wanted to fight me the other day, ain’t you?’’ Of course the reply is in the negative—the urchin’s eyes having been innocent of the bully, from the day each was born. ‘‘O, then, I lie, do I? Take that!’’ rejoins the young ruffian, ‘pitching into’ the peaceful one—who is lucky if he escapes with whole bones. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
25    The manufacturers, aiders and abettors of the present circulating medium of this country, (as great an incubus on its young energies, as impure air to growing youth,) have gone on diffusing through the land all the circumstances of the Paper system, until it has absolutely become unbearable—its tendency being to inflation, to derange- ment of the uniformity of value, to ‘make the rich richer and the poor, poorer.’ And
30    now when the twain, (if we may be allowed to personify them)—the Paper Genius on the one side, and the Genius of a Republican People on the other, come in conflict—the latter having been outraged by the former in every way that honesty and confidence can be outraged—it is the former which lifts its brazen front, and assumes to be the aggrieved party, and calls on ‘the people’ to come up and stand up in behalf of it, the
35    poor inoffensive thing so wantonly attacked! The favorers of the Paper system paint the Representative of the people, (the government,) as the bully, and Paper as a dear innocent which is subjected to its assaults; and this in the face of the records of this nation,  ever  since  it  has  been  a  nation.  Out  on  such  monstrous  assumption!
. . . . . . . . . . . . Wednesday’s N. Y. Sun says:

40    ‘‘The Brooklyn Eagle adheres to the Sub Treasury! He says he views 1840 in its bearing on 1844.
Very well. Nothing brought about the results of ’44 so rapidly as the efforts of the Whig party to
establish a National Bank in ’41. The bank question was not agitated by Whigs in ’40, nor was the
Sub Treasury agitated by the Democrats in ’44, but no sooner did both get into power than they
attempted to force their favorite measures upon the country. Never were greater insults offered
45    to an intelligent people. The whole Union had said—‘‘We condemn all your National  Bank
projects, whether in the shape of Sub Treasury or U. S. Banks.’’ Parties replied, ‘‘But you must
have them—we have the power and we will compel you to swallow the dose.’’ The Eagle knows
the rest. If its friends think they can swim past 1848 with this millstone round their necks, then of
course  Congress will not repeal the Sub Treasury next month.’’

  	117


    We say the Sub-Treasury question was agitated in 1844; commendation of it was publicly made by the Convention that nominated Mr. Polk—and by quite every Democratic Address from State Conventions, &c., previous to the exciting election in the fall—and in the Democratic press, and by Democratic speakers. As to a National
Bank, that was considered settled by an overwhelming negative, (and is settled.) As to	5 the ‘pet’ system, let us see the man who will openly come out and argue in its favor— who will stand the fire of facts against it, from the unsuccessful trial which Gen. Jackson made of it after the Removal of the Deposites down to the present period! For
the method of keeping the Public Funds, then, it were hard to say how they can be kept, other than by the Independent Treasury plan. (As to ‘‘National Bank projects in  10 the shape of a Sub-Treasury,’’ we are content to let the Sun have the benefit of its assertion about  them—when  it  can  prove  that  any  human  being  ever  thought  of  such  a ridiculous inconsistency.)
    But behind all this outside objection—strip it of the superficial guise which the attack wears—we see that the principal ground of the fight has been, and is, the specie-  15 requiring and paying sections of the New Bill. It is a contest between Paper, and Money that is Money. . . . . . And here we would throw in a word episodical. No one has any objection to Paper Money that gains its way on the strength of its own reality, and without special favor—the Paper of Banks doing a sound business, conducted by upright men, as many of our Banks really do and are. But let them carry on that  20 business without any connection with the Government, which connection does not bless either the bank that gives or the bank that takes. Such is but fair to all parties; and many  far-seeing  men  think  it  likely  to  be  all  the  better  to  a  true  banking  busi- ness. . . . . . . . . The contest, as we said, is between the circumstances of real Money and Paper. It is alleged that the discountenancing of Paper by its not being recd. for  25
Government dues will break it; and yet we fancy all will acknowledge that that part of the circulating medium which rests on no solider basis than the mere willingness of people to pass it in and out, ‘ought to break.’ But it will not break good paper—it will prop it the more. It will keep that continual flow of the precious metals through the business channels of the country, which will check the dangerous expansions of illy-  30 controlled banks. It will command more uniformity in the value of things. It will leave capital, enterprise, and natural advantages, to spring forth in a proper and wholesome way, without the fever-taint or the succeeding ague-chill, which our past and present most contemptible monetary system not only allows but makes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
To the humbug cries of ‘‘There not being gold and silver enough in the world,’’ &c.,  35
&c.; of ‘‘Locking up the people’s money in dark vaults,’’—with all the fine flings at the
operation of the law—tricks to delude the ignorant—we have no wish to rejoin.
. . . . . . . . . We think we can assure the Sun, however, that whether the Democratic
party sink or swim in 1848, it will never abandon this cardinal point of its doctrines.
40




November 13, 1846


Force in Government
45

    There is not a greater fallacy on earth than the doctrine of force, as applied in government. We of course allude to physical, not moral force—to compulsion, as it may be called, though it very seldom compels the effect it desires. Every body knows the old paradox that ‘‘A little is greater than much.’’ So it frequently is in laws.
    
118	  


Multiply laws, confuse the people ruled by a legion of entangled statutes, and there is not near as much harmony, (the aim of all good government,) as though laws were few, simple, and general. . . . . . It is pretty well understood, now, among thinkers who reason in their own minds, and not in the minds of the past, that unless men are laws
5    unto themselves, statutes are useless, except for the purpose of protecting rights, property, personal safety, &c. from outrage. Let any man take the various histories of various nations—and amid all the different versions of the same occurrence, he will find one perpetual train of proofs of the truth of the foregoing truism! And yet what a small proportion of men practically acknowledge it!
10




November 13, 1846

15


Death of a Truly Good Man

    The death of the great philanthropist, Thomas Clarkson, in England, at the advanced age of 86, has produced very sincere regret on this side of the Atlantic, and particularly among the community of Friends, of which he was a member. Thomas Clarkson was not what is called an abolitionist. He was the steady and unwavering
20   opponent of the African slave trade. When he commenced his labors (after the American colonies had prohibited the slave trade,) England was deeply engaged in the traffic, kidnapping, burning and plundering the unhappy Africans. He boldly assailed the practice, and after years of denunciation and labor, he finally succeeded in having that traffic abolished by law. He was the first to establish an English society and a
25    distinct organization against African slavery; and in 1789, he went to France for the purpose of inducing that government to prohibit the slave trade in her West India colonies, and interested La Fayette and Mirabeau. After great efforts and unremitting zeal for twenty years, he succeeded, in 1807, in getting a bill through Parliament, abolishing the African slave trade. It was the last act of the Grenville and Fox admini-
30    stration. Subsequently he published many works, one of which was his celebrated Portraiture of Quakerism. Thomas Clarkson was the wisest of all engaged in breaking down African slavery. He mixed no political aspects with his philanthropy, and he rejoiced to have his country earliest in the field against the odious traffic, without charging the people of the United States with being friendly to that trade, and to the
35    last he was in favor of colonization, believing it to be an act of justice as well as policy to restore the African to his own country. He was the first who excited Wilberforce to co-operate with him, but who finally made it a political question, instead of one of humanity and policy. There are many now in the field in behalf of the African, but few like Thomas Clarkson.
40




November 13, 1846

45


Boys in the Streets—
Vacant Time and How to Spend It


    We think Ald. Stillwell’s proposition for forming Free Night Schools in this city one which if carried into effect, would be productive of infinite good, at a very small
    
  	119


expense. The idea might be enlarged a little—so as to make the schools bear the character, at the same time, of reading rooms, and places for colloquial lectures. They might be made so agreeable as to attract our Brooklyn youth, and then, guiding their energies with a prudent hand, might bend their mental growth in such a way as to produce the happiest results. It is not merely the amount of book-cramming that is put	5 into scholars that gives them knowledge—and we think that the Free Night Schools suggested would do more than make their pupils a little better familiar with rules in grammar and arithmetic. The time at which our young people, whose parents are not rich, leave school, and go to work to learn a trade or procure means for their living, is generally the very time when their minds are expanding, and when a little discreet  10 culture would be repaid a thousand fold. But the culture is stopped; and the vacant time of the boys is spent at the street corners, loafing in engine houses, or in other profitless places. We think many a naturally smart good boy has been ruined by such idleness, and vitiating influences. We think too that Free Night Schools would, to a very great extent—(and if the Schools were conducted on the right plan, to an almost  15 complete extent,)—remedy this sad evil. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We know of nothing which should be looked upon with more fear or sympathy, than a collection of idle boys on the corners of streets or in certain vicious rendezvous. There
is the great source of vice, crime, and misery in great cities. There is the leaven, which leaveneth the whole lump, in the ways of perverted minds and diseased bodies. There  20 come young, tender and innocent boys, just from the bosom of mothers, most anxious and most affectionate, to learn evil, and only evil, from the lips of a youth, who has grown prematurely old in bad knowledge and vicious habits. That one is enough to destroy twenty. It is not either the children of the poor or the ignorant alone, who are thus perverted from good and natural courses. At more than one corner, in this city,  25 may be seen boys of wealthy, intelligent, and even of good parents, who, from strange notions about unnecessary restraint, or from the want of discreet mothers, or from the pressure of business and care, occupying too much their thoughts, have allowed their children to wander about the streets, picking up all the evil knowledge they can get. What is to be done? Is this not in cities, a great and important object of benevolent  30 inquiry? . . . . . . . . . . . .  We  think  it  not  too  much  to  say  to  the  members  of  the Common Council that their duty impels them to ratify this excellent (and unexpensive) plan of Free Night Schools. Let those Schools, too, be made not mere places of rote, and technicalities. There are (we feel confident) plenty of gentlemen who are capable and willing for the post of instructors, at merely nominal salaries—or no salaries at all; for  35 the plan is one which appeals to the good will of every well wisher of his kind. The right sort of teacher to a school is the main thing, also; books, and other accommoda- tions sink into insignificance compared with that soul of the school.

40



November 16, 1846


Abetting the Enemy


    The N. Y. Tribune, in its erewhile way, is leveling sarcasms at the Army, the Navy,  45 the  advance  of  the  American  cause,  and  every  successive  progress  of  our  brave fellows, at the south-west! The damper at Alvarado is meat and drink to this anti- American print! It chuckles over it, and launches dirty sneers at our officers and men!
    
120	  


    As to opinions about the origin of the war—or opinions about the greater or less wisdom of our sueing for peace—every man has a right to his own. With the views we hold about moral independence, we should be the last person to find fault with another person for expressing honest notions on those points, whether they coincided
5    with ours or not. But these sneaking inuendoes which the Tribune is throwing out day after day—its open advocacy of the Mexican cause—its virulent venom on every thing appertaining to the American side—comprise a dastardliness, which outrages all the decency that should be observed by the conductor of that print, as an editor of a print, or as an American citizen! The Great Constitution which he impudently appeals to in
10    these very attacks, makes but one crime, which it individualises as treason—and in its worst phase that is the very course now pursued by the Tribune!
    We, too, abhor war, as much as the editor of the Tribune. We bow to the beauty of peace, not in the abstract, merely, but as a rule of practice for nation and individuals— for our beloved republic, above all other nations. But is that any reason for insulting
15    our native land, and her brave ill-paid soldiers and sailors? Is that any reason for paint- ing up in the most seductive colors everything appertaining to our foe, and by contrast making gloomy everything that is of and with us? Is it merely to make party capital?




20
November 16, 1846



Notices of New Books


PHRENOLOGY, or the Doctrine of the Mental Phenomena. By J.G. Spurzheim, M.D., of
25	Vienna and Paris, and Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, of London.
Two  volumes  bound  in  one.  Vol.  1,  Physiological  part;  with  plates.  Vol.  2,
Philosophical part. Fifth American edition, from the third London edition, greatly
improved by the Author. Harper & Brothers, 82 Cliff st. N. Y.
Breasting the waves of detraction as a ship dashes sea-waves, Phrenology, it must
30    now be confessed by all men who have open eyes, has at last gained a position, and a
firm one, among the sciences. It seems to be useless to deny this—and the only
difference is as to the laying down of the dividing lines, and how distinctly and au-
thoritatively they can be marked. Perhaps no philosophic revolutionisers ever were at-
tacked with more virulence—struck by more sinewy arms, or greater perseverance—
35    than Gall, Spurzheim, and the other early Phrenologists. The great organs of taste, and
criticism, and judges of literary merit, in the British Islands, came ‘down’ upon them as
tempests come down on the oak. But the Phrenologists withstood the storm, and have
gained the victory! . . . . . . . . . This large volume of the Harpers, well-printed, teaches
of course from the fountain head—from the most cautious, skeptical and careful of the
40    Phrenologists, Dr. Spurzheim.

THE   OPAL; A Pure Gift for the Holidays. 1847. Edited by John Keese. With illustrations by J.G. Chapman. N. Y., J.C. Riker, 129 Fulton st.
As the pictures in an Annual are an important part of it, we have looked first, (like
45    a child,) at them. ‘Crossing the brook,’ and the colored picture of a young girl carrying
fruit—with seven others, (‘The Wasted Fountains,’ ‘Roman Girl,’ ‘The Deluge,’ ‘The
Summer Stream,’ ‘The Sentinel,’ ‘The Widow,’ and ‘Judas,’) comprise them—and true

  	121


bits of art most of them are. ‘The Sentinel’ is one which we have rarely seen surpassed; the figure of the sleeping boy is free and easy as child life itself—and the dog is worthy of Landseer. . . . . . . . . In binding, paper, and print, the Opal is superbly endowed; we particularly like the large clear type—so refreshing to the eye, and so rare in these days
of ‘making the most’ of everything. . . . . . . . . The literary contents of the Opal are	5 contributed by the poet Longfellow, Rev. Mr. Pierpoint, H.T. Tuckerman, Rev. H.B. Bascom, Alfred B. Street, Whittier, Mrs. Sigourney, C.E. Lester, Rev. Mr. Shroeder, and many other ladies and gentlemen.
[Quotation omitted—17 ll.]
10
SACRED   POEMS.  By N.P. Willis. N. Y., Published by Clark & Austin.
The reader of this pretty little volume will doubtless behold many familiar lines,
for Mr. Willis’s poems have enjoyed a rare popularity in the way of being copied. There
are some pieces, however, not so familiar. Of this character, (and how passing beautiful
it is!) is the piece commencing	15

‘‘I have enough, O God! My heart to  night
Runs  over with the fulness of content;’’

—which we have marked for publication.
20
History of the AMERICAN  REVOLUTION. First published in London, under the super- intendence of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Improved with maps and other Illustrations; also revised and enlarged, by Rev. J. L. Blake, D.D., author of ‘Sketches of American History.’ Harpers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
    Its title explains fully the scope of this little work—which is on a subject that of  25 course can never be uninteresting to Americans. We should suppose it a convenient book for introduction into our Public and other Schools.

PICTORIAL   HISTORY   OF   ENGLAND. No. 11. Harpers, N. Y.
This serial and pictorial publication is to be completed in 40 numbers. Number 11  30
brings down matters to the exciting times during the middle of the 16th century.

THE    DUKE     OF   BURGUNDY, OR    THE    CHRONICLES   OF   FRANCE. By  Alexander  Dumas, Author of ‘Monte Christo.’ W. H. Graham, Tribune Buildings, N. Y.
This seems to throw the interest of romance about certain incidents in the history  35
of France.





November 16, 1846

40
Local Intelligence
Sabbath-School Education


    We would remind the friends of Sabbath Schools of the lecture to be delivered this evening (16th) in the Washington st. M. E. Church, by Bishop Janes, on the important  45 subject of Sabbath School Education. It is needless for us to say that a lecture from such
a man on such a subject cannot fail to prove in the highest degree interesting and

122	  


instructive,—and we therefore anticipate a very large attendance. The Bishop will be followed by other eminent speakers on the same subject.




5

November 17, 1846




Absurdities in School Government


10		The Advertiser very properly condemns the silly stiffness of rule which has been allowed to obtain in certain of our Public Schools in Brooklyn. The fact is, that these rigid forms are generally preserved in schools where children learn the least; and if people only observe, they will see proof of that fact.—We don’t know any thing that makes us, in a certain sort, more indignant, than to notice the contemptible machine-
15    work of certain of the Schools—where children are used as so many automata, and the teachers think they do mighty fine things, when through the means of frowns and ferules, they get scores of them to move their hands and arms like clock-work!
    Now the object of true schools is to teach the children—and all forms and rules are mere shadows, only substantial inasmuch as they aid the other.—To elevate the mind
20    of a child, to spur it on with words of cheer and encouragement, to open by kindness and gentleness and firmness its own rich stores, these are the things to be aimed after. Mere rote, or book learning, is a very little part of education, after all. And these thumping, drilling teachers are at the very porch of learning themselves—and are not fit for their station.
25




November 18, 1846

30


One of the Bold and True

    A N. Y. city print of this morning (18th) announces that the old dilapidated monument to Lawrence in Trinity church yard is to be cleared away, and its place occupied by a new and massive one, designed by Mr. Upjohn, the architect, and now in process of preparation. We confess, for our part, to a kind of horror at any thing that
35    seems like disturbing the ashes, or the mortal resting place, of the departed. And though this crumbled memorial of a gallant man was quite generally scouted—and though the common and commendable sentiment of the people demands the renewal of it—we cannot get entirely out of remembrance the idea put forth in Shakspere’s terrible antithesis: ‘‘Blest be he who spares these bones! But Curst be he who moves these
40    stones! ’’
But let us devote a few passing lines to the Buried One there. His remains lie in the
south-western corner of the church yard—and the old monument, lately covered with
a rough pine shed, has (it was standing a few days since, when we copied it) the
following inscription:
45
‘‘In  memory  of  Capt.  James  Lawrence,  of  the  U.S.  Navy,  who  fell  on  the  first day  of  June,
1813,  in  the  32nd  year  of  his  age,  in  the  action  between  the  frigates  Chesapeake   and

  	123


Shannon. . . . . . . . . . . . . He had distinguished himself on various occasions, but  particularly while commanding the sloop of war Hornet by capturing and sinking His Brit. Maj. sloop of war Peacock, after a desperate action of 14 minutes. His bravery in action was only equalled by his modesty in triumph, and his magnanimity to the vanquished. In private life, he was a gentleman
of the most generous and endearing qualities; and so acknowledged was his public worth that    5 the whole nation mourned his loss—and the enemy contended with his countrymen who most should do him honor.’’
(On the opposite  side.)

‘‘The hero whose remains are here deposited, with his dying breath expressed his devotion to his country. . . . . . Neither the fury of battle—the anguish of a mortal wound—nor the horrors of  10 approaching death—could subdue his gallant spirit. His dying words were, Don’t give up the ship!’’

    I have a foolish weakness, when any thing thrills me deeply, which, in spite of all I can do, moistens my eyes. When I had finished copying the inscription, I found my paper blotched with teardrops.
    Surely there is nothing more excellent than the disposition to honor the names of  15 heroes and brave defenders of the land—founded as it is in that noble passion, love of country. Never, O never let us forget him—this young sailor who died too early for the nation, but not too early for himself! What a day must that have been when he drew
out of Boston Harbor, and the hearts of his countrymen beat high with the confidence
of victory! What a moment, when, struck down by the enemy’s fire—enveloped in  20
smoke and blood—the sounds and sights of carnage around him on every side—he
was borne from the deck, overcome but not conquered—his last thought, his last gasp,
given for his country!—Taken by the generous victors to Halifax, he was buried with
those testimonials of illustrious merit, which became his exalted courage, and the
character of a people never niggard in their admiration of true patriotism. But not long  25
could his beloved republic spare the remains of a child so dear to her, and so fit to be a
copy for his brethen. His body was disinterred and removed to Salem, (N. E.) whence
it was brought to New York, and deposited in Trinity church yard. . . . . . . Sleep
gently! Bold and True!
30




November 18, 1846



Local Intelligence	35

Public Parks and Grounds for Recreation

    The extract we give below is from the Boston Transcript—which, (with most journals of merit,) is a staunch advocate of these embellishments of City Life, beautiful Public Grounds. It will be seen by the extract, what is doing in the Old World in the  40 way of having open Parks—the Old World, where land is a thousand times more valuable than here, and where, it would seem, most people had so much need of even
the necessaries of life! But there, it will be noticed, they are ‘alive’ to the immense benefit, malgre the expense, of these Promenades. Why the only beauty, now, of the cities of Paris and London, consists in their tree-planted Public Grounds, and places for  45 recreation—the Boulevards, &c. in the former, and two or three noble Parks, (built within a few years past,) in the latter!

124	  


    And shall we in Brooklyn forego the opportunity—held as it were, for our easiest grasp—of a Park, which will compete with the largest and most beautiful in either of the world-famed capitals we have mentioned? Shall a little penny-wise difficulty be allowed to stand in the way of a consummation so undeniably to be wished for, by
5    every man with mind-eyes in his head? We hope not. We hope that the members of our Common Council, on whom the responsibility of this matter rests, will act up to their high duty—and not allow any local or petty impulses to sway them in it, against the improvement.
[Quotation omitted—24 ll.]
10




November 19, 1846

15


Matters Which Were Seen
and Done in an Afternoon Ramble


    The luscious air, (mellow as a full-ripe peach) and the cloudless skies, forbade any return that day (17th) to indoor avocations.—Merely to live, (out of doors) amid such fresh and welcome beauty, was enough;—but to ‘go to work’ immediately after tasting
20    it, was too much! . . . . . . . . . Who says Brooklyn is not a growing place? He surely cannot have walked lately, as we then walked, through East Brooklyn and  South Brooklyn. At this present writing, we think we could go and count full three hundred houses in process of erection in those two parts of our city! In Atlantic street there are several rows of noble buildings, and in quite every cross street can be heard the sound
25    of carpenters’ hammers and masons’ trowels. . . . . . . And by the by speaking of East Brooklyn, we wonder that some public spirited personage or personages do not set on foot measures for the construction of Churches thereabout, or even in the wide scope between it and Fulton street—for they are much needed there. There is, it is true, the New Methodist now being built in Bridge street, and a small but neat wooden Church
30    (on speculation) in Prince street; but the exuberant population there requires many and large houses of worship. No person who walks often through that part of our city, and beholds the immense proportion of young people resident in it, but will surely agree with us. West of Fulton street is well supplied with the most magnificent Churches, and this makes the paucity on the other side more apparent.
35		Crossing to N. Y. at the South Ferry, (what mortal could wish a better-managed mode of passage than appertains to our Brooklyn ferries?) We lingered awhile on the Battery—that beloved spot—and reflected whether the new Washington Park, on the heights of Fort Greene, would not be quite as noble a promenade, even without the water-front: it would have a far more magnificant water-view, you know. . . . . . . Stores,
40    and  very  handsome  ones,  we  observed,  are  encroaching  on  the  south  side  of Broadway, from the Bowling Green up to the site of the old Waverly House—the stretch made vacant by the fire of last summer. The last gaps in the line are now being filled up, and the New Year ’s callers on that route will behold not a single evidence of the  ruin  made  by  the  ‘devouring  element’  so  short  a  while  since. . . . . .  What  a
45    fascinating chaos is Broadway, of a pleasant sunny time! We know it is all, (or most of it,) ‘fol-de-rol,’ but still there is a pleasure in walking up and down there awhile, and looking at the beautiful ladies, the bustle, the show, the glitter, and even the gaudiness.

  	125


But alas! what a prodigious amount of means and time might be much better and more profitably employed than as they are there!
    After giving a passing glance in the rooms of the Art Union, (a perpetual free exhibition of Paintings, Broadway, near Pearl st., which we advise our Brooklyn folk
to visit often: it will cost them nothing, and there are always good things there,) we	5 ascended the wide winding stair-case of the Society Library, to the room where Brown’s Statuary is exhibiting. Mr. B. is a young American, and deserves well; for he shows genius  and  industry.  We  particularly  liked  two  marble  Bas  Reliefs—one  of  the Pleiades, and another of the Hyades. (These latter ‘weeping sisters,’ by the by, seem lately to have been in the ascendant.) An Adonis, quite the size of life, would perhaps  10 be considered the most attractive ‘feature’ of the exhibition. Though a noble statue, it
did not, however, come up to our (perhaps too lifted) ideas of ‘Myrrha’s immortal son.’
. . . . . . . . Just crossing Broadway, (to 341) our taste for the Ideal—for the exquisite in
form, the gracefully quaint, and the chastely gorgeous—experienced a sort of ‘new
developement’ in looking over Banks’s new stock and saloon; for surely no mortal man,  15
(except the proprietor himself, who seems to devote his life enthusiastically to it,)
could ferret out, or ‘get up’ so many superb things, in a super-superb style! Vases that
would add wonder to the palaces of Persian Shas—glitteringly grotesque mantel-
ornaments—tiara brilliants, that princesses might wear—bracelets, rings, and a maze
of etc.! such are but a portion of the star-like things that are collected here! True  20
Democrat as we are, we did like to look on shapes and things of beauty, ever.
—The deafening flourish of trumpets and roll of drums ushered up the curtain of
the Park theatre, just as we entered and took a seat amid a well-filled house, to see a
counterfeit  presentment  of  ‘‘The  Troublesome  Raigne  of  John,  King  of  England,’’
(which is probably more Marlowe’s play than Shakspere’s after all.) And there sat the  25
monarch so ‘infirm of purpose,’ on his throne—surrounded by bold barons, and all the
things of the Feudal age! Whatever may be said of Mr. Kean’s acting, the public owe
him something for the perfection of costume, scenery, properties, &c. in the plays
produced under his control. It is not to be denied that a New York audience never
before had anything in the neighborhood of the truthfulness and appropriateness  30
which mark the present representation of King John. That shows something like a
court, and the movements of royalty, and of armies. There are scores of knights and
men-at-arms, that bring to one’s mind the stamps on old English coins, the pictures
and effigies in old Abbeys, and such like. And instead of the ludicrous stiffness that
usually prevails on the stage, in such scenes, there are colloquial groupings, and all the  35
adjuncts, as near as possible, of reality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
But what shall we say of Mrs. Kean’s Queen Constance? a piece of artistic work which
we shall not soon forget. We are not given to superlatives in these things—but if there
be any perfection in acting, Mrs. K. evinces it in her pourtrayal of that widowed and
crownless Queen! From first to last it was a continuous stretch of unsurpassed by-play  40
and fine elocution. The harrowing close of the third act was marked by the tears of half
the audience, men as well as women. The character of Constance is such as Mrs. Kean
can (and almost she only) truly represent—and the following bit of delivery, as she
gave it, was perhaps never better done, on the stage. It is the rejoinder she gives to the
remonstrances of Cardinal Pandulph and King Philip, against her overwhelming grief  45
for the loss of her little son, Prince Arthur, who was taken prisoner by his usurping
uncle:

126	  


[Rejoinder omitted—13 ll.]
We must confess, though we are no admirer of Mr. Kean, that he, in King John, left
very little to be asked for more, by the reasonable spectator. His elocution was good,
and his air and bearing such as became royalty. The two last acts, which depend quite
5    altogether upon him, were deeply interesting; and we think the common cant hitherto
about the play, that it ‘lacks dramatic effect,’ must pretty effectually get its quietus,
now. The play really is full of dramatic interest—and not the least of it flows from its
historical associations. Only the morbid appetite for unnatural strained effect can
complain of want of interest in such a play as King John. . . . . . Mr. Vandenhoof’s
10    Faulconbridge was acting of the liveliest, heartiest, most refreshing sort, and gave a
light grace to the massiveness of the rest. The young creature who played Arthur took
the sympathies of the whole house; she played with quiet, grace, and modesty.



15

November 19, 1846
Incidents in the Life of a World-Famed Man

20    THE  AUTO BIOGRAPHY OF GOETHE.—Truth and Poetry: from My Life. From the German of Goethe, by Parke Godwin. Two vols. Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y. What a prodigious gain would accrue to the world, if men who write well would
as much think of writing LIFE, as they (most of them) think it necessary to write one of the million things evolved from life—Learning! What a gain it would be, if we could
25    forego some of the heavy tomes, the fruit of an age of toil and scientific study, for the simple easy truthful narrative of the existence and experience of a man of genius,— how his mind unfolded in his earliest years—the impressions things made upon him—how and where and when the religious sentiment dawned in him—what he thought of God before he was inoculated with books’ ideas—the developement of his
30    soul—when he first loved—the way circumstance imbued his nature, and did him good, or worked him ill,—with all the long train of occurrences, adventures, mental processes, exercises within, and trials without, which go to make up the man—for character is the man, after all. Such a work, fully and faithfully performed, would be a rare treasure! . . . . . . . . . This Life of Goethe—this famous Wahrheit und Dichtung—
35    seems shaped with the intention of rendering a history of soul and body’s growth, such as alluded to. It is not full enough, perhaps; but it is a real history, and no man but will learn much in the reading of it. It (like Shakspere’s writing) does not bear every now and then the inscription, ‘‘See the moral of this!’’ or ‘‘Behold how vice is punished!’’ It goes right on, stating what it has to say, exuberant in its seeds of
40    reflection and inference—though it doesn’t reflect or draw the inference.
Mr. Parke Godwin, the translator, (assisted,) deserves more than ordinary thanks
for this labor—one long needed, for we are told that there has been hitherto but a
miserable imperfect elliptical translation, published in London some time since, and
now out of print. John Henry Hopkins, jr. of Vermont, owns also a hand in this new
45    translation—he having rendered the second volume. . . . . . The print, paper, &c., are
good. We notice one or two errors, however, in the text; one, for instance, on the 18th

  	127


page of volume 1st, which makes the great earthquake in Lisbon happen in 1775. It should be 1755.
[Extracts and introductions to them omitted—142 ll.]

5



November 20, 1846


[Contentment]


It is right to be contented with what we have, but never with what we are, though  10
the exact reverse is the case with most men.





November 20, 1846

15
The Hanging To-day; (20th)


    Were it not that we look forward to the era of a better and more genial time ‘a- coming,’ the recurrence of such exhibitions, one of which takes place this day in the prison yard of the N. Y. ‘Tombs,’ would be indescribably monstrous, even in the bare  20 thought! It is said that there are no palliating circumstances for the murderer: are there any more for the act of to-day? What is the general inference from this same act of to- day, but that life may be taken? Diffuse that inference through the masses of the people and  who will answer for the consequences? yet it is diffused by every successive execution—and by every argument in behalf of hanging!	25
    Either by accident, or from design, this very day has been appointed by the N. Y. State Society for the Abolition of the Death Penalty, as the time when a public meeting be held in every city and town in the State, (Friday evening, 20th instant,) for the discussion  of  the  subject,  and  that  a  Society  be  formed  wherever  practicable. . . . . . 
Also that the subject be discussed in debating societies; that editors of newspapers  30 open their columns to articles upon it; that petitions be prepared and sent to the legislature; that lectures be delivered relating to it; and that ‘Burleigh’s Thoughts on
the Death Penalty,’ and other kindred works be extensively circulated. What is our Brooklyn Society doing, by the bye? We hope it will not be discouraged by a few malapropos occurrences at its meetings of last spring. ‘The cause’ is a truly high and  35 noble one; and in the adherence to such a cause, let no petty difficulties stand in the way! Men who battle against that blood-written statute! have faith in the justice of what you ask—and fear not to battle on!

40



November 20, 1846


[‘‘Yankee Doodle’’ No. 7]


Yankee Doodle No. 7 ‘keeps it up’ in the way of fun: we wish, however, they would  45
sprinkle  the  caraway-seeds  of  morals,  more  frequently  in  their  paragraphs.  The

128	  


following extract, for instance, is more funny, than deserving the appellation of true
wit:
[Extract omitted—42 ll.]

5



November 20, 1846


New Publications


10		Mr. Willis signalizes his identification with the Home Journal by its appearance not only in a more graceful style of typography, with a ‘sweet’ head line of type for the name—but by a welcome amt. of his own refreshing writing in its columns. We recommend it as a Family Paper.
The Appletons, N. Y. have published one of the prettiest of pretty little gilded
15    books, Golden Maxims, ‘with something for every day in the year.’ It contains serious
advice, devout maxims, etc., and forms a choice miniature book for a neat gift or for
the centre table.
The December number of the Columbian Magazine contains ‘the Northmen’ by
Mrs. Child, which we know must be good reading: the rest of the web is haply of lighter
20    weaving than it might be, if wholesome taste were consulted. We persist in thinking
that a third-rate appetite is far too much bent to in these monthly magazines.
Wiley & Putnam, N. Y., have published, (in the size and style of their ‘Library of
choice Reading,’) the Second part of Dickens’s Dombey and Son, with unusually neat
illustrations by H. K. Browne.
25	Sundry of Mr. Colman’s, (Boston) Holiday Publications will be noticed duly.





November 21, 1846
30


About Pictures, &c.


    We went into the Institute rooms in Washington st., yesterday afternoon, (20th) to take ‘a last fond look’ at the pictures—(which we blame ourselves much for not having noticed more fully before.) If we may flatter ourself that our readers remember any
35    length of time what sentiments we advance in these columns, they must be aware that we ‘go’ heartily for all the rational refinements and rose-colorings of life—such as music, mirth, works of art, genial kindness, and so forth. We wish every mechanic and laboring man and woman in Brooklyn, would have some such adornment to his or her abode—however humble that abode may be—a print hung on the wall, a pot of
40    flowers, or even the occasional noise of an accordeon, (an instrument, by the by, which discourses very eloquent music, well-played, and is cheap to buy, and easy learned: We advise our excellent friend Mr. Hjousberry to get an invoice of cheap ones, and put them in tune for humble purchases, the coming season.). . . . . . And if we are met with the ready rejoinder, that ‘‘it is hard enough for poor folk to earn the necessaries of life,
45    let alone things which you neither eat or wear,’’ we still say that that higher appetite, the appetite for beauty and the intellectual, must be consulted too—and the bread and

  	129


beef should not always be allowed to carry the day. ‘He that hath two loaves,’ says Jean Paul, ‘let him go and exchange one for some flowers; for bread is food for the body, but flowers are food for the mind.’
    Among several very fair paintings at the Institute, we yesterday noticed with satisfaction the ‘Portrait of a Gentleman,’ No. 19—‘Portrait of a Child,’ No. 31—the	5
‘Kitchen Bail at White Sulphur Springs’—Mr. Fisher ’s ‘Portrait of a Lady,’ and Mr. Rogers’s two ‘Landscapes.’ Doubtless there were others worthy of particular commen- dation, but our limited time, (many had been taken away, too, as the Exhibition closes to-day)  prevented  our  making  a  fuller  examination. . . . .  The  old  ‘Snow  Scene,
Brooklyn thirty years ago,’—a regular ‘feature’ in these Exhibitions—stood out in as  10 bold relief as ever; and we paid due respect to it. Perhaps few things will be able to bring before the eyes and realization of the next race, the fact how rapidly Brooklyn
has  ‘went’  in  the  progress  of  improvement,  more  fully  than  this  well  delineated picture.
    We commend these Exhibitions—and hope the spirit which prompts them will  15 increase and multiply in Brooklyn. We wish some plan could be formed which would result in a perpetual free exhibition of works of art here, which would be open to all classes.

20



November 21, 1846


Thomas’s Execution


    The hanging of the negro Thomas went off ‘beautifully,’ according to the N. Y.  25 papers! This choking work seeks to prevent crime in the very spirit which causes and multiplies crime!



30

November 23, 1846
Attempts to Create a Panic in the Flour Markets

    The impression is growing deeper and wider that a very great portion of the alarm  35 hitherto rife about a prospective scarcity of bread-stuffs, is the result of interested promptings by speculators.—No one of course can doubt the facts of the serious defection the last autumn in the potato yield, and, to some amount, in the grain yield,
in Europe. But, we fancy, the yield in the United States the past season is sufficiently large to make the aggregate quantity produced this year as great as that produced any previous   40 year. . . . . The recent, and still going on, developments, in reference to the way in which  the  Eastern  Telegraph  has  been  prostituted  to  the  mercenary  purposes  of speculators, are enough to make any man indignant!
    Let the greedy monopolists of this country—in their aid from the paper system which prevails in the face of mountains of fact and argument—dally as much as they  45 like with stocks, ‘fancy’ or any other kind;—but when they come to play upon the life-
    
130	  


blood of the people, we think it is time for every honest man, particularly every editor, to lay the lash of condemnation right strongly upon them!




5
November 23, 1846



Education—Schools, Etc.


In our prevalent system of Common School Instruction, there is far too much of
10    mere forms and words. Boys and girls learn ‘lessons’ in books, pat enough to the
tongue, but vacant to the brain. Many wearisome hours are passed in getting this rote,
which is almost useless, while the proper parts of education have been left unattended
to. Of what use is it, for instance, that a boy knows the technical definition of a
promontory or a gulf—and can bound states, as they are bounded in the book, north,
15    and east, and south, and west, when he has no practical idea of the situation and
direction of countries, and of the earth’s different parts? Of what use it, that he can
recite the rules of grammar, and speak off all its book terms, when he does not apply
it in his conversation, knows not a tittle of the meaning of what he says, and is hourly
committing the grossest violations of it? Of what use is it to a child that he has
20    ‘‘ciphered through the book,’’ to use the common phrase, when he cannot apply the
various rules to the transactions of business, and is puzzled by a little simple sum
perhaps in the very elementary parts of arithmetic?
Unless what is taught in a school be understood, and has some greater value than
merely a knowledge of the words which convey it, it is all a sham. In schools (as too
25    much in religion) many people have been too long accustomed to look at the mere
form—the outward circumstance—without attending to the reality. It matters little
that a teacher preserves the most admirable discipline—performs all the time-honored
floggings and thumpings and cuffings—and goes through with all the old-established
ceremonies of school teaching—unless the pupils are aided in forming sharp, intelli-
30    gent minds—and are properly advanced in the branches they may be pursuing. With-
out these follow, his education is a mockery—a make believe. The forms of a school
are of small account, except as they contribute to the main object—improvement.
The proper education of a child comprehends a great deal more than is generally
thought of. Sending him to school, and learning him to read and write, is not educating
35    him. That brings into play but a small part of his powers. A proper education unfolds
and developes every faculty in its just proportions. It commences at the beginning, and
leads him along the path step by step. Its aim is not to give so much book-learning, but
to polish and invigorate the mind—to make it used to thinking and acting for itself,
and to imbue it with a love for knowledge. It seeks to move the youthful intellect to
40    reason, reflect and judge, and exercise its curiosity and powers of thought. True, these
powers, this reason and judgment have to be exercised at first on childish subjects—
but every step carries him further and further. What was even at first not difficult,
becomes invaluable as an easy habit. And it is astonishing how much may be done in
this way; how soon a child acquires by proper training, a quickness of perception and a
45    ready facility of drawing on stores of its own, that put to the blush the faculties of
many, even of mature age. We consider it a great thing in education that the learner be

  	131


taught to rely upon himself. The best teachers do not profess to form the mind, but to direct it in such a manner—and put such tools in its power—that it builds up itself. This part of education is far more worthy of attention, than the acquiring of a certain quantity of school knowledge. We would far rather have a child possessed of a bright, intelligent, moderately disciplined mind, joined to an inquisitive disposition, with very   5 little of what is called learning, than to have him versed in all the accomplishments of
the most forward of his age, arithmetic, grammar, Greek, Latin, and French, without that brightness and intelligence.

10



November 23, 1846


Notices of New Books


THE     FRENCH   REVOLUTION.  A  History.  By  Thomas  Carlyle.  Newly  revised  by  the  15
Author: with Index. Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y.
Backing the title-page of this edition, appears an announcement from Mr. Carlyle,
that it is one which he has ‘‘read over and revised into a correct state’’ for W. & P., who
are thereby authorized, ‘‘they and they only,’’ so far as Mr. Carlyle can authorize them,
to print and vend the same in the United States. This is equivalent to making it the  20
imperative duty of every honorable man, (and who wishes to get the work authen-
tically) to purchase this edition exclusively—where he can get it. For though our
unrighteous system of plunder in the literary and publication world, gives any man
the chance to pirate and print this book, without legal offence—it were none the less
offence against justice and common decency. . . . . . . . . . . . By the way, how stands the  25
International Copyright cause? Is any thing doing, to induce action in the coming
session of Congress? We should think by this time, that not only American authors, but
American publishers, had reason to favor this reciprocity of Copyright. Honesty is the
best policy, even in publishing books.
Mr. Carlyle’s genius, as evolved in the work whose title we have given above, is  30
too broad a subject, and provokes too many inferences, to be properly treated in one of
these short notices. . . . . . This new edition is well-printed, and forms Nos. 78, 79, and
80, of the ‘Library of Choice Reading.’

HENRY  LANGDON. A Tale. By Mrs. Louisa Payson Hopkins, author of ‘The Pastor ’s  35
Daughter,’ ‘Young Christian Encouraged,’ etc. Gates & Stedman publishers, 136
Nassau st. corner Beekman, N. Y.

DAYS  OF   BOYHOOD. Same publishers.
It must be considered among the good things of this literary age, that a great  40
portion of its books, (and not the least in merit, some of them,) are the works intended
for youth. Such are the two just mentioned. The ‘Days of Boyhood’ we opened at hap
hazard, and read nearly through, unconsciously interested in the simplicity of the style
and story—the best test, perhaps, of the worth of a book. . . . . . We hope our readers
will not have to listen to it as a new thing, when we suggest to them that the providing  45
to  boys  and  girls  of  a  liberal  quantity  of  good  reading  matter,  is  among  the  first

132	  


duties which parents and friends of youth should perform. The mind of an intelligent child, too, is provoked to delve and inquire after knowledge, the more it is interested, and  its  curiosity  awakened  by  such  stories  as  ‘Days  of  Boyhood,’  and  ‘Lang- don.’. . . . . . We may add that Messrs. Gates & Stedman have ‘got up’ these works in
5    very convenient form, fair print, and tasty binding.

CLASSICAL  ANTIQUITIES, or, A Compendium of Roman and Grecian Antiquities; with A Sketch of Ancient Mythology. By Joseph Salkeld. Harper & Brothers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
10		In its First Part, this gives an account of the political institutions, religion, military and naval affairs, arts and sciences, manners, customs, &c. pertaining to the Romans; and in the Second, to the Greeks. The author states his object to have been to avoid a scanty conciseness as well as too great copiousness, of matter—thus fitting his work for the unprofessional reader, as well as the schools.
15
THE   BRIDAL  KEEPSAKE. From approved authors. By Mrs. Colman. Boston; published by Samuel Colman. Brooklyn, for sale by A. M. Wilder, 51 Fulton st. and Wilder and Co., 139 Atlantic st.

20    GATHERED   THOUGHTS. By Miss Colman. Same publisher, and for sale at the  same places in Brooklyn.
    These exceedingly pretty little volumes are—the first-mentioned, as its name im- ports, a memorial to a lady just married; the second, a collection of beautiful, devout, and noble sentiments from a large number of writers. As far as a book can do it, we
25    should think the first capable of making a wife realise many of her duties, and sug- gesting hints for performing them gracefully. The second comprises the pithy wisdom of some of the finest observers of human nature. What, for instance, can be neater than a collection of such short volumes of truth as the following: ‘He who can take advice, is sometimes superior to him who can give it’—‘When men speak ill of thee,
30    live so that nobody will believe them’—the first from Von Knebel, the second from
Plato?




35    November 24, 1846
The Twenty-Fifth of November, 1783

It is not unremarkable that each of the N. Y. morning prints is devoid of any
40    allusion to the recurrence of to-morrow, (25th) the annual counterpart of

—‘‘Evacuation  day,
When  the British ran  away,’’

as the juvenile doggrel used to render it. And yet this anniversary is one which should
45    be held among the first on the calendar, hereabout—the epoch which marked the
withdrawal of the last remnant of royal power, from Brooklyn and N. York cities—
and the entrance of Washington and his compatriots! It is a day suggestive of great

  	133


thoughts—it is a day, (one of many) that the American patriot may well love to look back and dwell upon.
    As thought turns to that period, it needs but little prompting of fancy to bring the chain of a glorious drama, all before one’s mind. The curtain rises, like a lifted mist, in dreams. The rude fortifications at Breeds loom up, and the cannon thunder, while mar-	5 tial ranks of trained soldiery are repulsed, again and again, by the almost unarmed rebels. Then the quiet and stately deliberations of Congress appear, and the philosopher stands forth, the utterer, himself unaware of the immortal consequence of his words, of truths that yet melt the iron prerogatives of kings, and shall spread their direct or indirect influence away in distant ages, when, haply, the very name of him who kin-  10 dled the fire may be washed out by the rolling waves of time, and forgotten. Again the dark days are there dimly like the spirit kings in Macbeth; we see the squalid misery of Valley Forge, with shivering forms crouching over tent-fires, and the snow outside red with the blood-tracks of chilblained and festered feet. But the eyes of many who suffer deepest, quail not, nor do their steeled hearts waver in the direction to freedom, that  15 high and glittering polar star of their love. The seasons speed, and a more cheerful scene now holds the place of sombre ones. The leaders of the army of freedom are grouped together in battle array, not for active fight, but to receive the capitulations of
the humiliated foe.—Then closes the course with the triumph of the right. From the
top of the flag-staff on the Battery waves the red cross of St. George—waves but for a  20
minute, for long ere distance closes, the glances of those on board the British vessels,
conveying the army of the king away, see that red cross drop and the stars and stripes
flap broadly in the breeze!

25



November 24, 1846


American Futurity


    Thirty years from this date, America will be confessedly the first nation on the  30 earth. We of course mean that her power, wealth, and the happiness and virtue of her citizens will then obtain a pitch, which other nations cannot favorably compare with. Her immense territory is filling up with a rapidity which few eyes among us half real-
ize. And back of what can possibly be filled up in fifty years, lie immense untravelled plains and forests, fat of their own richness, and capable of sustaining nations like the  35 greatest in Europe. The mind is lost in contemplating such incalculable acres—and the lover of his race, whose fellowship is not bound by an ocean or a dividing line, yearns that the degraded, starving and ignorant ones of the old world, whatever and whoso- ever  they  are,  should  be  transplanted  thither,  where  their  cramped  natures  may expand, and they do honor to the great humanity they have so long been a blot upon.  40
. . . . . Yet it is well, as it is. For the time must surely come—that holy millenium of liberty—when  the  ‘‘victory  of  endurance  born’’  shall  lift  up  the  masses  of  the downtrodden of Europe, and make them achieve something of that destiny which we may suppose God intends eligible for mankind. And this problem is to be worked out through the people, territory and government of the United States. If it should fail! O,  45 dark were the hour and dreary beyond description the horror of such a failure—which
we anticipate not at all!

134	  




November 25, 1846


[Thanksgiving Day]


And so to-morrow is Thanksgiving Day! But how few there are who will fully
5    hold it in that spirit of gratitude which may well be observed from man to his Maker, in
such a beautiful world as this is, after all—that spirit of ‘thanks for life and thanks for
death,’ so properly a guiding motive in the healthy-toned mind! Whatever may have
befallen us, whatever may have happened in the past year, no mortal being but has
cause for praise to God! Has it been well with thee? Then praise the Good Benevolence
10    which has vouchsafed so much mercy. Has thy life been darkened with grief, or any
great troubles? Bow thy head to the Good Father, who ‘doeth all things well’;—sorrow
if thou must, in meekness—but sorrow not as one who has no hope, for does not thy
Father live and wield the power still? Nor let thy sorrow be so unintermitted as to
debar a cheerful demeanor for one day at least; let thy heart respond to the good that
15    has been ordained for thee too.
We say these words, (although of a more sober hue than may seem fitting to the
time,) because we know that the merry will need no prompting to hold such a day as
to-morrow: it is the cast down who need that prompting. Yet undeveloped is that soul
which has not known sorrow.
20	[Quotation omitted—10 ll.]
And if the question of some murmurer be put: ‘Why should I who have to toil day
after day for my living—why and wherefore should I give thanks?’ let our answer be
in the words of the sweet translator of some of the sweetest writings of the age, Mrs.
Howitt in her ‘Laborer ’s Thanksgiving Hymn’:

25	Thank  God, that like the mountain oak
My  lot is with the storms of life;
Strength grows from out the tempest’s  shock;
And  patience in the daily strife.
The  horny hand, the furrowed  brow,
30	Degrade  not, howe’er sloth may deem;
’Tis this degrades—to cringe and  bow,
And  ape the vice we disesteem.

Thank  God for toil, for hardship, whence
Come  courage, patience, hardihood,
35	And  for that sad experience
Which  leaves our bosoms flesh and  blood;
Which  leaves us tears for others’  woe!
Brother in toil, respect thyself;
And  let thy steadfast virtue show
40	That  man is nobler far than pelf!

Thank  God for toil; nor fear the face
Of  wealth nor rank; fear only sin,
That  blight which mars all outward  grace,
And  dims the light of peace within!
45	Give  me thy hand, my brother, give
Thy  hard and toil stained hand to  me;
We are not dreamers, we shall live
A  brighter, better day to see.

  	135




November 27, 1846


Late Publications


Taylor ’s (2 Astor House, N. Y.) Illustrated Magazine, for December, has something
5	really handsome in the way of engravings—one from that ‘Brooklyn in Old Time,’
which is well known to many of our citizens; and ‘the Seamstress,’ a picture which has
in it a whole volume of meaning. The editor and publisher of the Illustrated appear to
labor earnestly in the work of making a good magazine; there is a large amt. of reading
matter  in  each  number,  some  original,  and  some  selected. . . . . .  The  Lady’s  Book
10	appears in a new style of cover, and holds the same literary character as before: the old
contributors remain also. . . . . . . Graham’s gives in the December issue, a view of the
city of Columbus, O., and a picture of a very fat lady who seems to be holding up her
hands  in  a  fair  position  to  catch  apples  thrown  from  the  trees:  ‘Rebecca,’  so
called. . . . . . Peterson’s Ladies’ National Magazine, (at $2 a year) intends commencing a
15	‘Floral Department’ with the next volume.
Colman’s (Boston) Juvenile Publications, at the book store of A. M. Wilder, 51 Fulton st.,
and Wilder & Co., 139 Atlantic st., Brooklyn.—We casually alluded, the other day, to the
fact that good books for children were engaging more and more attention, and were
more and more in demand, every successive year. It has come to be quite an extensive
20	branch of the trade—that which involves the manufacture and sale of works for little
children. And among such works, appear particularly worthy of notice a series pub-
lished in Boston, and for sale at Wilder ’s book-stores in this city. There is for instance
(in this series) a little square blue-bound book, ‘How to be Happy,’ with its easy
smooth reading (such as would interest not only a little child but one of larger growth)—
25	‘the Lu-Lu Alphabet,’ for wee fellows—or ‘the Bijou Alphabet;’—besides such easy
nice story books as the ‘Carrier Pigeon,’ ‘Charles and Emily,’ ‘Mendeline and her Lady-
Bug,’ ‘True Benevolence,’ and ‘Faithful Walter.’ These are all short, wholesome, easily
comprehended moral narratives for children. In their form and binding, they are neat—
the print is large, and the lines well-spaced, which we like to see. The prices of them, too,
30	are very low. And we could wish that not a single little girl or boy in Brooklyn, but might,
in the course of the coming holidays, get one or more of these pretty books. . . . . . . . . 
Our readers will always ‘find it to their advantage’ to call at Wilder ’s in their search
after any thing in the book or stationery line. He has nearly all the goods that are ever to
be had in such stores—and what you may want that he has not, he will get you at the
35	same price you could purchase it in N. Y., and save you the bother of going over there.





December 2, 1846
40


The Independent Treasury


    Discreetly backing out from any thing like argument on the subject of the New Treasury Law, the N. Y. Sun contents its spite toward that law by frequently jerking at it such little paragraphs as the following:

45		‘‘Specie Clause.—There appears to be no doubt that the President will  recommend sus- pending the specie paying clause in the sub treasury bill until the end of the war. It would be as well to suspend the operation of the bill altogether. Nothing but trouble and embarrassment will grow out of it.’’

136	  


    —Whatever temporary bendings may be due to temporary occasions, the Presi- dent and the Democratic party will assuredly remain firm to the principle of the New Law. It is identified with the vitality of the soundest doctrines of the modern and more liberal school in politics: give up that, and ‘the one thing needful’ is given up. . . . . . 
5    The far-sighted statesman does not confine his scope of view to a day or a season alone—the mere chippings of time. The Independent Treasury Law is not to be viewed in its bearings on the convenience of governmental money-paying while we have a war with Mexico. That war is not to continue for ever: while our republic, we fondly hope, is to continue a great portion of that stretch in the future, at least—if not all of it.
10		It is the curse of legislation in this country, that the noblest, truest, freest laws— laws made, like holy truth, for age upon age—are chased away by the least shock of apparent expediency. The friends of such laws are often much to blame, in yielding to the slightest discord in the new, but effectual when worked, machinery. We want legislators  in  our  public  councils  who  will  lift  themselves  out  from  that  slavish
15    subserviency to the lowest phase of miscalled popular will, and stand high and dry on the prominence of great truths—whence they may be deserted for a passing hour, but where the wholesome instincts of the people will ever fondly come back to them, and repay them a thousand fold for their courage, and adopt and endorse their teachings with enthusiasm!
20




December 2, 1846

25


[Lashing]

    The way they beat moral sensibilities into the prisoners confined in the Penitenti- ary at Kingston, U.C., is quite edifying. An average of 150 lashes a day are adminis- tered, or 54,750 annually; and the severe regimen is on the increase. No wonder—the appetite grows by what it feeds on.
30




December 2, 1846

35


[Values]

    We know a very fair American writer who receives five dollars a month for contributing to a certain magazine; and this while a mademoiselle who can kick her nose with her heels goes home with two or three cool 20000’s.

40



December 2, 1846


Notices of New Works


45    DR. HOOPER’S PHYSICIANS’ VADE MECUM:  or a Manual of the Principles and Practice of Physic, considerably enlarged and improved, with an outline of general Pathology and Therapeutics. By Wm. Augustus Guy, M.B., author of  ‘‘Medical  Jurispru-

  	137


dence.’’ With additions by James Stewart, A.M., M.D., Fellow of the College of
Physicians and Surgeons, &c. Harpers, N. Y.
This book could be recommended more, if it gave less encouragement to blood-
letting, dosing, and so forth—the ‘old plan’ of treating diseases, as it may be called. We
do not think the ‘intelligence of the age’ is favorable to that old plan, however: people	5
are tired to death of being dosed to death. . . . . Of course, ‘‘Hooper ’s Vade Mecum’’ is
highly desirable, still—indispensable, we may say—to one who studies medicine; as
such an one wants all before him.

ECLECTIC  MORAL  PHILOSOPHY. Prepared for Literary Institutions and General use. By  10
Rev. J. R. Boyd, A.M., author of ‘‘Elements of Rhetoric and Literary Criticism.’’
Dry as the study of Moral Philosophy is, it cannot be denied that there are few
departments of education more important; and few, it may be added, more neglected.
It is particularly incumbent on the young to pay some attention to Moral Philosophy:
for their future lives are to take the hue which study, influence, and circumstance will  15
give them. . . . . . . This book is excellently printed—as, we observe, quite all the late
publications of the Harpers are.

A memoir of the REV. RICHARD  SLUYTER, late Pastor of the Ref. Prot. Dutch Church of
Claverack, N. Y. By R. Ormiston Currie. With an introductory by the Rev. Philip  20
Milledoler, D.D. &c.
This little work with a large title is for sale at the stores of Mr. Wilder, Fulton st.,
and Atlantic st., in this city.

The NAZARENE; or the last of the Washingtons. A Revelation of Philadelphia, New  25
York, and Washington, in the year 1844.
A serial, this—we judge from the glance we have given it—comprising little but
unmitigated trash.—There is altogether too much of this wild unmeaning stuff spread
on good white paper that might be far better employed.
30
LUCRETIA; OR    THE   CHILDREN   OF   THE   NIGHT.  By E. L. Bulwer.
The Harpers have published a twenty-five cent edition of this work. Its author ’s
name alone will doubtless give it a prodigious ‘run.’

35



December 4, 1846


Music That IS Music


    A discriminating observer of the phases of humanity—particularly its affectations—  40 propounded through his editorial voice, the other day, a query whether nineteen twentieths of those who appear to be enraptured at the N. Y. concerts with the florid Italian and French music, could really tell the difference, if they were blindfolded, between the playing of a tolerable amateur, and the ‘divine’ execution of Sivori, De Meyer, and so on. We trow not! Four fifths of the enthusiasm at that sort of melody is  45 unreal. We do not mean to say but what there is melody; but a man here might as well
go into extatics at one of Cicero’s orations, in its original Roman!

138	  


    We do wish the good ladies and gentlemen of America would be truer to them- selves and to legitimate refinement. With all honor and glory to the land of the olive and the vine, fair-skied Italy—with no turning up of noses at Germany, France, or England—we humbly demand whether we have not run after their beauties long
5    enough. For nearly every nation has its peculiarities and its idioms which make its best intellectual efforts dearest to itself alone, so that hardly any thing which comes to us in the music and songs of the Old World, is strictly good and fitting to our nation. Except, indeed, that great scope of song which pictures love, hope or mirth, in their most general aspect.
10		The  music  of  feeling—heart  music  as  distinguished  from  art  music—is  well exemplified in such singing as the Hutchinsons’, and several other bands of American vocalists. With the richest physical power—with the guidance of discretion, and taste, and experience,—with the mellowing influence of discipline—it is marvellous that they  do  not  entirely  supplant  the  stale,  second  hand,  foreign  method,  with  its
15    flourishes, its ridiculous sentimentality, its anti-republican spirit, and its sycophantic tainting the young taste of the nation! We allude to, and specially commend, all this school of singing—well exemplified as its beauty is in those ‘bands of brothers,’ whereof we have several now before the American public. Because whatever touches the heart is better than what is merely addressed to the ear. Elegant simplicity in
20    manner is more judicious than the dancing school bows and curtsies, and inane smiles, and kissing of the tips of gloves a la Pico. Songs whose words you can hear and understand are preferable to a mass of unintelligible stuff, (for who makes out even the libretto of English opera, as now given on the stage?) which for all the sense you get out of it, might as well be Arabic. Sensible sweetness is better than sweetness all
25    distorted by unnatural nonsense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Such hints as the above, however, we throw out rather as suggestive of a train of
thought to other and more deliberate thinkers than we—and not as the criticisms of a
musical connoisseur. If they have pith in them, well; if not, we at least know they are
written  in  that  true  wish  for  benefitting  the  subject  spoken  of,  which  should
30    characterize all such essays. We are absolutely sick to nausea of the patent-leather,
curled hair, ‘‘japonicadom’’ style.—The real (not ‘‘artistes’’ but) singers are as much
ahead of it as good real teeth are ahead of artificial ones. The sight of them, as they are,
puts one in mind of health and fresh air in the country, at sunrise—the dewy, earthy
fragrance that comes up then in the moisture, and touches the nostrils more gratefully
35    than all the perfumes of the most ingenious chemist.




December 4, 1846
40
Sixty-Three Years Since—The 4th of Dec., 1783

    (We love to seize these occasions of awaking the purest patriotism—the more needed in the too-much selfishness of political contests, now.) . . . . . . The old Broad st.
45    Coffee-House—that yet stands in New York—was the stage of a sad and noble scene, sixty-three years since, this very day! the parting adieus of Washington and his officers and troops.—It was a strange scene too. It was a scene of joy, of grief, of exultation, of

  	139


tears, of the highest hopes, of the most anxious fear. The joy and exultation were war- ranted by the victorious end of a war where freedom and high desires had to contend against the established government, and the settled prejudices of the world. The hopes were for the future. The fears, too, were for the future. The tears and grief—ah! they outvied all the rest, in spite of fact and faith! . . . . . . In the hall of the Old Coffee-House	5 (Francis’s) ‘‘were gathered the stout true men who led in our revolutionary armies; the men who had patiently suffered many defeats—to gain the triumph at last. There were Greene, and Gates, and Knox. There were the brave Steuben, and the impulsive Clin-
ton. But ah! some were not there—for their bones were marrowless, and the earth hid them!—Some lay under the frozen air of Canada—and from that stretched their graves  10 to the warm Altamaha, in the south. Montgomery had yielded up his life at Quebec; Wooster, at Danbury; Woodhull was barbariously murdered whilst a prisoner at the battle of Long Island; Mercer fell mortally wounded at Princeton; the brave and chival-
ric Laurens, after displaying the most heroic courage in the trenches at Yorktown, died
in a trifling skirmish in South Carolina; the brave but eccentric Lee was no longer  15
living, and Putnam, like a helpless child, was stretched upon a bed of sickness.
[Description of the parting of Washington from his officers and troops omitted—
45 1⁄2     ll.]
—Nor may it be amiss to recall some of the instances of want and actual misery
which marked the circumstances of many, perhaps we may say most of the officers and  20
soldiers, after the close of the war. It is but a poor return from us of the present to give
our sympathy now—but it is all we can give now. [Instances omitted—31 ll.]






December 4, 1846

25


Travels by the Way-Side in Europe


Under the appropriate title of ‘Views A-foot; or Europe seen with Knapsack and Staff,’  30
Wiley & Putnam, N. Y., have just published an unusually readable work of description
and travels. It forms No. 24 of their Library of American Books. It is written by
J. Bayard Taylor; and the narrative of its origin, and the circumstances under which
what it tells was had, are of themselves interesting. [Narrative and circumstances
omitted—20 ll.] The volumes now published by W. & P. are the observations and  35
narrative—told in a neat pleasing style—of those two years of journeying. We have
scanned them with much enjoyment; and we insure equal pleasure to whoever will
procure and read them.

40



December 5, 1846


[Liberty]


    If a man should set out in the world, (somebody has said the amt. of this before  45 us,) with the intention of calling every thing by the name his private opinions might desire to give it, he would be in hot water all the days of his life. Still it is very
    
140	  


refreshing to hear folks who will say what they think;—to us it is refreshing, even if they say what we don’t think—if we see that honesty and clearness of heart prompt them in the said say. . . . . . ‘‘Liberty, a nation’s glory!’’ sang the Hutchinsons at their concert last evening, (4th)—whereupon certain zealous persons felt themselves called
5    upon to hiss. Is not ‘liberty a nation’s glory’? Even more—Is not slavery in this republic an evil which the good and far-sighted men not only in the North, but in the South—in Virginia, in Tennessee, and in North Carolina, where ‘emancipation’ has many plump bold advocates—consider to be an evil, and one demanding the anxious consideration of every American Democrat—every American politician?
10		Come, now, let us be candid with ourselves on this subject. The mad fanaticism or ranting of the ultra ‘Abolitionists’ has pretty well spent its fury—and, by the by, has done far more harm than good to the very cause it professed to aid. But it is useless to deny that far and wide, infused in the newly recruited life blood of the republic with every successive batch of Democratic young men, as they come to take their part in
15    action and politics—spreads deeply and firmly and vividly, this love of impartial
‘liberty,  our  nation’s  glory!’  God  speed  the  holy  impulse  in  the  breast  of  every
Democratic young man! And if such an one should read these lines, we enjoin him to
let no consideration of mere aparent policy—no dread of vulgar ridicule—bar the full
developement of his soul in such free thoughts, and the utterance of them!
20	That a man has these notions of liberty does not infer that he ‘goes’ for setting at
defiance all discretion, the settled laws of the land, the guaranteed power of citizens,
and so on. We wish for the downfall of despotism in Russia and Austria—wish it with
all our heart; yet who would be so wild as to violate the organised system of those
empires, and our treaties with them, in any way? Such violations could do no good,
25    but harm. It is to the discoveries and suggestions of free thought, of ‘public opinion,’ of liberal
sentiments, that we must at this age of the world look for quite all desirable reforms, in
government and any thing else. And the right of free action to that thought, and free
expression to it, is a holy right, which once take away, and the advance of the future is
checked and dwarfed, as a child by some blighting malady that mars its growth
30    forever. Live, then, the right of thinking, and saying! It may sometimes lead to an
excess—but so do the most noble traits of the human character. Without it we might all
become a nation of slaves!



35

December 5, 1846
The Command of the American Army in Mexico

40		One  of  the  N.  Y.  prints  states  authoritatively  that  Gen.  Scott  ‘‘is  to  take  the supreme command in Mexico.’’ If this is true, public sentiment, which will be outraged by it, will not be slow, we opine, (and hope) to express its disapproval. Gen. Taylor has from the very beginning shown the rarest and most needed qualities for the very difficult post of American commander in Mexico; qualities which have left nothing to
45    be asked for more, from him.—He is ‘one of a thousand.’ He has gained the admiration not only of his country, but the world.—And at this crisis in our dispute with our southern neighbor, to allow any consideration foreign to the issue, (the historical reader

  	141


will remember the Gates movement in our revolutionary contest to supercede Washington,) to displace him from the chief command, is a defiance not only of policy, but, as we intimated, of a most righteous public sentiment.
    It is probable that such objections as these may be answered by reference to ‘‘the rules of the service,’’ to precedent, or some such way. This was the way of the Dutch	5 princes whom Napoleon always defeated, but who consoled themselves with the reflection that their tactics (theoretically) had been unexceptionable—and that accord-
ing to all rules ever laid down in books, they ought not to have been defeated. We plain civilians are not soldiers enough to know the war articles. But we know enough to tell who wins the most battles—who is likely to save us from paying the expenses of a  10 long tedious war through our taxes (for to that complexion must it come at last.) We know that while Gen. Scott has danced attendance at Washington, and moved in slow state from city to city in the north, when he should have served his country i’ the south—Taylor and his gallant captains and equally gallant men, have achieved the most brilliant deeds recorded in the annals of modern warfare! have sustained the  15 name and rights of their country in a manner to entitle them to a thousand-fold more reward than their paltry pay, and the fleeting mention such as this they now get!





December 5, 1846

20

The Queen of England


    A number of persons here—where thrones, the paraphernalia, the trappings of royalty, are looked upon as useless and ridiculous expense, nay, more, as grinding to  25 the people—are fighting a war of words in regard to the rights of women. These, at all events, where royalty exists, can scarcely object to a woman’s sway. There seems to be
so benignant and kindly an influence exercised over a people by the very prestige of a gentle-hearted woman being at the head of the government, that we cannot help applauding the law which allows it. Heaven knows men are rough, selfish, and bloody-  30 minded enough to need ameliorating influences—and this is one of them. . . . . . . When the mildest and most well-wishing brain that ever throbbed beneath the English crown, resolved to set at defiance the tinsel stupidity of the old etiquette of courts, and visit the King of France at the Chateau d’ Eu, some seasons since, we felt a satisfaction and a delight, such as are rarely caused in our mind by the deeds of sovereigns—  35 viewing them, as we do, with the eye of a true republican. And it were well for Europe
if such visits were made oftener. Well wishers to peace must hope that the Queen will pursue this plan of visiting foreign places; and, if the progress of steam goes on improving for ten years to come as it has improved for ten years past, we could hardly subject ourselves to ridicule by inviting her majesty to come over and spend a week  40 with Brother Jonathan himself! Startling as the idea appears to be now, in process of time we may find stranger notions realised.
    It is a favorite argument of those who balance the good that Napoleon did against the mighty sum of evil, death and sin, that followed the train of his life and conduct, to
say that the simple breaking down of the tight bands that limited one European state  45
from another, and familiarizing the different grades of society with the sight of royalty
as a human thing were enough of themselves to outweigh all the worse results. There is

142	  


some truth in this. But if those desirable effects were not dearly bought at the expense of so much treasure, and such an outlay of human life, of keeping a continent in a continued state of anarchy, and arraying army after army against each other for years in succession; if they do so much good to Napoleon’s memory as to make philanthro-
5    pists, in exulting over them, forget his ambition, his selfishness, his shameful desertion of those who loved him truly and fondly when it served his interest to desert them, his placing the glory of France before the lives and rights of all the other nations of the earth; if this be so, what meed of praise shall be given that monarch who goes forth to produce the same beautiful results without the cost of a single life, the provoking of a
10    single malignant thought, or the infliction of a single pain? What Napoleon did amid groans, the smoke of battle and the thunder of cannon, a gentle young woman (we love better to speak of her that way than as a crowned Queen) is doing amid smiles, light hearts, and the glitter of curious gladsome eyes. . . . . . . If we were forced to live in a monarchy, we should by all means prefer to be ruled by a Queen!
15



December 7, 1846
20	Literary English Characters of the Past Century—Dr. Johnson

THE   LIFE   OF  SAMUEL  JOHNSON, LL.D. Including a Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. By James Boswell, Esq. A New Edition, with numerous additions and Notes. By John Wilson Croker, LL.D., F.R.S. In two vols. Harpers, 82 Cliff st. N. Y.
25		How it is with others we of course know not (probably the trait is not limited, however)—but with us, there lies always a dash of melancholy in reading which brings up the private life and thoughts, the sayings, repartees, prejudices, loves and hates, weaknesses and nobilities, of the literary people of a past age. They, too, were writers: they lived the feverish uncertain life. And now they are long dead, and become
30    ashes in the earth. (It is remarkable that hardly any intellectual persons have come to the end of their mortal journey, but with more or less

‘‘Grief that they had lived in vain!’’)

—We read of Beattie, Dr. Robertson, Reynolds, and the fiery-breathed Burke. We
35    read of the poverty-pressed Goldsmith, the heedless but good-hearted one. Sheridan’s
dazzlingly wild genius, comes up and sparkles like a phantom scymetar again. The
massive abstracted Gibbon,—clear as the ice of the topmost Alps—and as cold,—we
see. And gentler presences, the light of the highest mental expression, set in those
nonpareils of woman’s eyes, and adorned with all the fascinating elegance of woman’s
40    high-bred grace, are before us, too; Mrs. Piozzi, Mrs. Thrale, Mrs. Montagu, Miss
Reynolds, (sister to Sir Joshua,) are caught ere they fade and fall; and we hear them
as in the living time! Not in the dry and meagre way of hard statistics, have we all this,
but in full volume and body; and this too not as in wax-work, but the flesh and blood
of breathing life; and this too, not in state and formality, but with the mask thrown
45    off—life at the social table and animated conversation where the tongue has the
heart for its prompter—life even on bended knee, the soul opening its secret recesses
to Heaven! . . . . . . To say that pages involving a narrative of the traits of such people
as we have just named—let alone the grim hero of the text, the ‘Great Bear ’ himself—

  	143


must be interesting, would be using a common word to express a most vivid truth.
. . . . . Nor will the conception fail to form itself in many readers’ minds, ere they get
through, ‘All this and these are now passed away—and what has been their influence?
what marks have they left on the world’s action, and afterward?’ A comprehensive
scope—the answer to such asking—which we cannot even begin on the edges of.	5
—We are no admirer of such characters as Dr. Johnson. He was a sour, malicious,
egotistical man. He was a sycophant of power and rank, withal; his biographer nar-
rates that he ‘‘always spoke with rough contempt of popular liberty.’’ His head was
educated to the point plus; but for his heart, might still more unquestionably stand the
sign minus. He insulted his equals with an outrageous disregard of common decency;  10
and tyrannized over his inferiors. He fawned upon his superiors, and of course loved
to be fawned upon himself. The didactic virtue spread through his writings is of that
sermonizing sort, which is outweighed a thousand times by the least thing that comes
home to the reader ’s breast—virtue fitted for practice in the world, and not merely, as
Dr. Johnson’s was, to round a period in a book. Nor were the freaks of this man the  15
mere ‘‘eccentricities of genius’’: they were provably the faults of a vile low nature. His
soul was a bad one. He wrote a Dictionary, it is true; but the obligation due from the
world for the work is no more or less than the obligation a man owes the pedagogue
who  thrashed  spelling-lessons  through  his  boyish  skin,  in  the  way  of  the  said
pedagogue’s paid-for vocation. As to Johnson’s miscellaneous writings, they have  20
deservedly lost favor of late years in public taste—and merely retain a passing hold
there on the strength of adjuncts, and precedent, foreign to themselves. . . . . . . . . . . 
We will make one or two extracts. Talking of children, the surly old bachelor says:
[Quotation omitted—17 ll.]
Then hear the coarse-tongued ribald:	25

    ‘‘Ladies set no value on the moral character of men who pay their addresses to them: the greatest profligate will be as well received as the man of the greatest virtue, and this by a very good woman, by a woman who says her prayers three  times a day.’’

We have only to add that the Harpers have printed these interesting volumes in  30
handsome style, well fitted for the select library.





December 8, 1846

35
Free Night Schools


    We still hope something will be done in the way of establishing these schools. Messrs. of the Board of Education! we exhort you to move in the matter now!
40




December 8, 1846


‘That’ Oil
45

    Such a night as last evening developed the beauty and quality of the oil furnished to light (!!!!!!!!! !) our Brooklyn streets, in all its radiant brilliancy (????????? ?)
    
144	  



December 10, 1846
Re-election of Mr. Calhoun to the Senate

—Of all the southern statesmen, we most admire Mr. Calhoun, (barring certain
5    items of opinion—not of much importance, however.) He has an uprightness, an
absence of all the trickery of politics, in his make. Without verging the least bit on
rudeness or favoritism, he is ‘‘a plain blunt man that loves his friends.’’ He has a way,
too, of amplifying and generalizing—a way that our politicians would do passing well
to get in, all of them. He has a way of reducing things to first principles—by tests of
10    right and constitutional correctness. Then he is sincere, above-board, not swayable by
fear, selfishness, or favor. He is an honest politician.
And yet Mr. Calhoun will never—can never—be President of this Republic. That
is not his destiny. It were useless for us here, (though we may one day take occasion) to
run over the reasons on both sides of this matter—interesting as they are. We now only
15    allude to Mr. C., to copy with pleasure the statement that he is re-elected to the U. S.
Senate from South Carolina, for six years from the ensuing 4th of March. There may he
be! say we. There may he stand, the faithfullest of Democratic champions—fighting
the battles of the truest freedom—of reason and principle against all and any of the
phases  of  that  conservative  spirit  which  is  yet  vital  in  this  country!  exposing  all
20    demagoguism, and guarding the Constitution!





December 10, 1846
25


[Book Notice]


    ‘Lessons in Physiology,’ is a small work published by the Cooledges, N. Y., intended for children, schools, and so on.—It is for sale at Wilder ’s 51 Fulton st., and by Wilder
& Co., Atlantic st.
30



December 11, 1846
Autobiography of a Brooklyn Lamp: A Serial Tale
35
    —My birth and earlier life I do not think it necessary to give. I always had plenty of tin, however. Perhaps this is the reason that I became ‘‘stuck up.’’ Having settled this point—I shall resume my Life the next number. (To be continued indefinitely.)

40



December 12, 1846


Notices of New Books


45    JOURNAL  OF  AN  EXPLORING  TOUR  BEYOND THE  ROCKY  MOUNTAINS, under the direction of the A. B. C. F. M., containing a description of the Geography, Geology, Climate,

  	145


Productions of the Country, and the numbers, manners, and customs of the Natives:  with  a  map  of  Oregon  territory.  By  Rev.  Samuel  Parker,  A.M.  Fifth edition. N. Y., Mark H. Newman & Co.
    The new facts, the evident reliability and the goodly freshness which mark this Journal, redeem its meagreness of style: indeed one could hardly wish for elegance of	5 composition in a work which treats on such subjects as this treats. To our mind Mr. Parker ’s statements appear veritable—and as to the absorbing interest of the Indian
life, customs, &c., which they describe, there can be no question. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . It may be suggested that American curiosity might quite as well turn its attention to Indian traits, as to Egyptian or Druidic ruins &c.—the wrangle-ground even of our  10 new world antiquarians.

THE    ODD-FELLOWS’ OFFERING, for 1847. Edited by Paschal Donaldson. N. Y.; J. G.
Treadwell, 68 Barclay st.
Pure  white  paper,  ample  margin,  large  type,  gilt,  and  beautiful  engravings,  15
distinguish the ‘getting up’ of this truly beautiful annual. The pictures are on subjects
appropriate to an Odd-Fellow’s gift; and the text is also filled with a charity-teaching
brotherly-infusing spirit. We commend this annual to the Odd-Fellows of Brooklyn.

BAXTER’S   LIFE    AND  WRITINGS. Wiley & Putnam, N. Y.	20
Baxter ’s Life is full of adventure—and instead of the dryness one might perhaps
anticipate from the title, few persons even of the heretical, could peruse it we think
without pleasure. His theology, (of which even those who often repeat his name are not
over well informed) was a singular mixture formed from the promptings of his own
heart, and by his education. He was a bold advocate of what would in these days be  25
almost Universalism; he believed in universal redemption. And yet he believed in
something he called ‘election’. . . . . . But to those who love such investigations, we
recommend the book itself. It contains, beside the Life, his ‘Call to the Unconverted,’
‘Making Light of Christ and Salvation,’ ‘The Last Work of a Believer,’ and ‘Sending
Abroad of God’s Love.’ The book is well-printed and is in the list of ‘Works of the  30
Puritan Divines.’

THE   DEPARTED  SISTER,  and other Tales. By Joseph Alden, D.D. Gates & Stedman, 136
Nassau street, N. Y.
Our readers must be aware the warm commendation with which we welcome  35
proper reading for the young—as this may unquestionably be called. The style is not
only fair, but really pure—and indeed we consider it no small matter to write in a
method  to  be  understood  by  children,  and  at  the  same  time  please  the  maturer
polished taste. The style of this book does both.
40




December 12, 1846


[Cromwell and the Puritans]
45

    A N. Y. contemporary says that, ‘‘Nothing in history has been half so laboriously slandered as Oliver Cromwell’s administration and the whole course of Puritan administration,  both  in  Old  and  New  England.’’. . . . . .  With  respect  to  the  first-
    
146	  


mentioned, there is no doubt about the fact averred: though history is beginning to do Cromwell, and the republicans of that age, justice—after the poisonous stories fit for the effeminacy and sycophantic loyalism of the years that came immediately after the Protectorate. . . . . . But with respect to the latter, the fault is, that we have all overrated
5    our ‘‘Puritan Fathers.’’ They were bold and fearless—had a wonderful fortitude, and a staunch determination to enjoy their own opinions;—but they were too harsh and bigoted and fanatical—had too little Christian love—and persecuted others far more than they had ever been persecuted themselves. For it is a mistake to suppose that the
‘Pilgrims’ fled from oppression abroad; they might have had comfort enough, either in
10    England or Holland—but they were too opinionated and domineering in spirit to
remain there. Such hardy virtues as they had, were profitable, doubtless, in founding a
nation, amid the wilds of the northeast. But we see no reason for this perpetual
adulation and sympathy for virtues which they not only had not, but were marked by
the very opposites of. It does very well in poetry and 4th of July orations, (and yet not
15    so—for both poetry and eloquence should disdain) to assume such fictitious points of
composition. The real fact, though, is that if such persons as the early N.E. settlers were
to come among us now, they would be drummed out of society by common consent.
This we say without wishing to sneer at them at all: the age in which they lived was
not a bright one—and they are among its better specimens, even as they were.
20




December 12, 1846

25



Autobiography of a Brooklyn Lamp


    After I was put up in my little glass house, I remained without annoyance for a considerable time. One day however, a man came to me, (by a ladder,) and filled me with a thick poshy singular substance, (not liquid,) and squeezed a cotton string
30    through my nostrils, the ends of which he dabbed with turpentine. The same evening, just after sundown, he came again and put me on fire. Proud of my office, I chuckled considerably; but alas! hardly had he got to my next neighbor, when I found that the poshy substance on which I had to depend for life, was a humbug. Accordingly I went out;—and though the people who passed were full of jibes when they looked up at my
35    glass house, I confidently defied them to make light of me.—(To be continued.)




December 14, 1846
40
Works of History, for General Reading

    The incidents and style of the Beauties of English History—and another work by the same author, (J. Frost,) Beauties of French History, are, to our mind, worthy of special
45    commendation. They are lately published by the Harpers. Things most favorable to human nature are there presented in an attractive light, well fitted to provoke imitation, or the planting of the proper moral; while traits and deeds of wickedness are related in a mode that sets off their intrinsic repulsion. The young of the ‘middling

  	147


classes’ much neglect the study of history; which is the more to be wondered at when such pleasant and cheap books as these, invite their attention, and so easily enlighten them.  The  ‘Beauties’  are  printed  fairly,  and  embellished  with  appropriate  wood cuts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
A History of the United States, by Marcius Willson, is published for school use, by Mark	5
H. Newman, 199 Broadway, N. Y. It is worthy of another use, however, than merely in
schools—use in families, use by those who study ‘without a master ’—by the domestic
learner,  the  apprentice,  and  so  on.—Our  remark  made  above  on  the  paucity  of
historical knowledge, will apply to our American youth’s knowledge of American
history, too—which is a sad fact enough. This history, we hope, will do something to  10
obviate the evil. It is well printed, and has some maps and pictures.





December 14, 1846

15
[Book Notice]


    ‘Beauchamp, or the Error,’ a new novel by G. P. R. James, is published by the Harpers for twenty-five cents, (forming No. 91 of their Library of Select Novels.). . . . . . Mr. James is a turgid writer whose books will not be known twenty years hence. The  20 best  of  him  is,  that  his  pages  have  that  negative  merit  of  being  quite  invariably moral.





December 14, 1846

25

Make a Black Mark for It!


    The lamps of Brooklyn, (at least a portion of them) were burning at 9 o’clock last evening. This is ‘first rate.’—What is the reason that for three months past they have  30 spluttered and gone out with the rapidity of a lucifer match? Echo answers ’atch!





December 14, 1846

35
[The Viennoise Children]


    The Viennoise children at the Park theatre put us in mind of nothing else in the world  more  than  fireworks, ‘done’  by  juvenile  humanity  instead  of  powder  and chemicals! There they lie, the beautiful little creatures! as the curtain rises—themselves  40 beds of living roses, more charming than the huge garlands with which they perform
so many pleasant capers. Anon, they start off like butterflies—the music and they are as the volition of a unity—swaying, cloud-like, in fantastic and easy wavelets—then dividing again, drawing back even as waves recede, and forming new and more and more wonderful combinations. . . . . . These little Dutch girls have the largest sort of  45 red cheeks—forms like big apples—and their black eyes and fat little legs vibrate together, as the band plays those inspiriting German dance-airs! They all look healthy; and the Queen of the troop,

148	  


‘‘Fashioned so slenderly
Young and so fair,’’

spreads a most fascinating ‘looseness’ and grace through all she has to do, from
5    beginning to end. . . . . . The dance where half of these engaging creatures are dressed
in tight male dresses, is particularly amusing and pleasing. The rogueishness of the
boy-girls, (the two largest good-looking fellows, though, are very sober indeed,) and
the elasticity of their motions, make a spectacle which the youth of the players only
redeems  from  Sybarite  voluptuousness!  It  is  a  very  tolerable  ‘poetry  of  motion’
10    however—and the prudish need not be afraid of witnessing it.
Where did the directress ‘pick up’ all these nimble and pretty Dutch young ones?
For though they are not handsome-faced, (which we Americans think more of than
the modern, far more than the ancient Europeans) they are well formed, healthy-
featured girls. ‘Where did they come from?’ Ah, the thought involved in the answer
15    must make a deep call upon our sympathies! Even in the midst of their rapid and
harmonious  evolutions,  too—as  they  swing  to  and  fro  in  their  smoothest  and
gracefulest windings—one can hardly help thinking of their future. The sweet-budding
thoughtless ones! O, that some special angel might have them in his harm-fensive
care!
20




December 15, 1846

25


[Book Notice]

    Under the name of ‘The Useful Arts, considered in connexion with the applications of science,’ the Harpers have issued certain lectures by Prof. Bigelow, in Harvard University, amended, improved and revised into a book. Utilitarian is this book in the most emphatic sense. Whatever touches directly or indirectly on the comfort of
30    man, in doors and out of doors—travelling on land or water—sleeping, eating, sitting, working, and even musing—here are hints, digested thoughts, scientific allusions, bearing upon them. The arts in ancient and modern times—materials used in the arts and in building—dividing and uniting materials—color—heating and ventilation, and illumination — locomotion — machinery — horology — metallurgy — vitrification —
35   railways,—aquaducts, mines, wells, canals, manufacturing beet and maple sugar, daguerreotyping, spinning, thread weaving, and making paper—these, (and scores and scores of matters more,) are the subjects treated upon in this ‘every body’s book.’ Said we not truly it was Utilitarian?

40



December 15, 1846


Isms


45		Mothy antiquated reasoners who merely think and act through the minds and eyes of the Past, are hideously witty on all ‘‘isms’’. But the truth is, the world need not be afraid of schemes of reform: they are not half so dangerous to human happiness as those stagnant slaves (what else are they?) to precedent, old times, and ‘respec- tability.’

  	149




December 15, 1846


John Quincy Adams


    When the roll of Congress was called on Monday last, the silence which was the only response to the name of John Quincy Adams was impressively felt. The venerable	5 statesman had been celebrated for his prompt and strict attendance to the duties of his position; which it is now doubtful whether he will ever again assume.





December 15, 1846

10

Books for Youth


‘Glimpses of the Wonderful,’ a book just issued by Wiley & Putnam, N. Y., competes
for praise with the best ‘got up’ London publications of similar purport. The pictures,  15
(of which there are plenty), are designed with exceeding taste. The text narrates the
singular customs of distant nations, wonderful natural curiosities, perils of earth and
sea, and so on. . . . . . . . . The Mother’s Present, a Holiday Gift for the Young,’ by Mrs.
Colman, Boston; (for sale in Brooklyn at Wilder ’s, 51 Fulton and 139 Atlantic st.)—a
richly printed and moral-toned collection of original and selected matter, specially  20
appropriate for a gift from a mother to her boy or girl. The pictures and ornamental
pages  are  tasty—the  binding  unusually  handsome—and  the  stories  such  as  are
profitable for young folks to read. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Blake’s Juvenile Companion, (Harpers) contains a selection of one hundred and sixty
eight tales, anecdotes, and historical, moral, and scientific sketches—somewhat on the  25
good  old-fashioned  plan.—There  is  a  great  variety,  of  course—and  we  recognize
several little narratives the reading whereof was the delight of our boyish days. . . . . . 
Rupert Cabelle, and other tales; by Joseph Alden, (Gates & Stedman, N. Y.) is the fourth
of a series of excellent books for youth, the previous ones having been before noticed
by us. It has (we have read it) the same clear smooth style—the same pleasant vein of  30
good-humored virtue, which is the best means in the world of winning a boy’s heart.
We hope our Brooklyn parents, who wish to give presents to their children, will
remember this series.

35



December 15, 1846


A Public Benefactor


One of the lamplighters has been trying to sell the mush and molasses used for  40
the street lamps.





December 15, 1846

45
[Brooklyn Lamps]


    Why are the Brooklyn lamps like young gentlemen of irregular habits? . . . . . Because they’re out every night.
    
150	  




December 16, 1846


[The Mexican War]


Amid the thoughts called up by the fact that there is a state of war now existing
5    between this republic and its nearest neighbor, it must not be forgotten that this war is
the most bloodless one thus far, (in proportion to the scope it has had in object and
action) that ever was known on earth! Counting all the battles that have been fought—
and all the numerous skirmishes and forays—probably not a thousand lives have been
lost. And this is the more strange, when we remember the magnitude of the victories
10    gained—some of which rival the fights of old in Grecian passes, and the proudest
samples of Latin valor!—(of course it must be borne in mind that we are forming our
calculations of the loss not from the exaggerated rumors—such as those which came
at the first blush.)
Just reflect for a moment on the attitude held at this time by the U. S. forces in
15    Mexico, toward the people—and the interchange of business and pleasure between
the soldiers and the natives. Why, that is not war! Many classes in what is called
a peaceful community, have and do greater bitterness toward each other, than the
Yankee army and the Mexicans—the larger portion of them. . . . . . . . . . . . We love to
record these things, because we love to record all signs of ameliorated humanity.
20    Will not the future effect of even this war extend the area of Peace Principles—and hasten the
advent of that holy era when all swords shall be beat into plough shares and spears into
pruning-hooks?




25
December 16, 1846



Don’t Be So ‘Mortal Genteel!’


If we may presume on such a liberty, we would say a word to Brooklyn audiences
30    at public concerts, &c. How strangely stiff and formal they are! How chary of their
applause! Or rather how chary of their hands—for one’s brain does not soon get over
that  jarring  discord  produced  by  kicking  and  stamping  with  heavy  boots  and
thumping with canes! Let us whisper in their ears, that kicks are poor tokens of
kindness, and no thorough bred person now-a-days, ever expresses approbation with
35    his  feet.  Your  hands—give  your  hands,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  where  your  hearts
prompt you to give anything.—And during the intervals of the performance, be not
afraid of talking, laughing, looking and moving.—You are not having daguerreotypes
taken, nor acting silent statues—and it comes over one like a chill to see so many
persons perched, as it were, on their propriety, and every word in a low whisper.
40



December 17, 1846
45	A Few Words to the Young Men of Brooklyn

    It deserves to be remembered that education is not a thing for schools, or children merely. The acquirement of knowledge concerns those who are grown, or nearly
    
  	151


grown, more even than children. Let no one suppose that when a person becomes eighteen or twenty or thirty years old, he is past the season for learning. Some of the wisest and most celebrated men, whose names adorn the page of history, educated themselves after they had lost the season of youth. They began, many of them, without even a knowledge of reading and writing, and raised themselves by their industry and	5 study to high eminences. The biographies of men of science present accounts of people born and nurtured amid the deepest poverty and toil, with hardly money enough to buy a sheet of paper or the commonest book—who yet, by a resolute application and improving of odd hours, acquired learning far beyond others who were living in
comfort and enjoying all the advantages of schools. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
No period is too late to attend to the improvement of the mind. No station has cares
so numerous, or disadvantages so great, but that the one who fills it may cultivate his
intellect. There have been young men—young men whose lot it was to labor hard, and
to possess but few aids in acquiring what they sought—and these same persons,
thirsting for knowledge, and feeling how noble a thing it is to raise oneself above the  15 level of ignorance, and equality with the low and debased, resolutely set themselves to work in studying—and attained distinction and fame in that sphere. And more than this: not only have poverty and suffering and weakness been overcome by those bent
on advancing, but even blindness and deafness which seem to present insurmountable obstacles, have not been able to stop the exertions of the knowledge-seeking spirit.  20
Some of the greatest scholars have labored under these afflictions, and have sur- mounted  them. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . To those who are just entering upon manhood, the paths of science present pleasures of the most alluring kind. If the young men of Brooklyn, instead of spending so many
hours, idling in bar-rooms, and places of vapid, irrational un-amusement, were to  25 occupy that time in improving themselves in knowledge, happy would it be for them, and the city too! If, instead of engaging in scenes, associating with companions, and haunting places, that lead them to become fond of gambling, that meanest and most debasing of vices—or of intemperance, that dreadful canker that cuts off the fairest flowers and the finest fruits in the human garden, they would but covet the far higher  30 and the far purer pleasures of literature, half the misery and guilt that generally afflict men would be precluded them.






December 17, 1846

35


The Effect of This Horrible ‘Free
Trade’ Tariff on Mechanics’ Wages
40

    We just put it to the Whig prints to tell us where, when, and on whom, the wages of mechanics have been reduced at all, in cases that have not analogy to cases under the old Tariff? Not one instance has occurred of mechanics’ wages being reduced. On the contrary, they are as good as at the best times. Every body knows what a demand the
new trade laws abroad, (and here too,) have made, quite as much as the scarcity, for  45 our farmers’ produce. Besides, all our mechanics—carpenters, masons, and every one else—are doing as well as at any former time. Ship carpenters are wanted both in New York and Philadelphia, where their wages have advanced $2 50 per day.

152	  




December 18, 1846


Startling!


Two street lamps have been seen on fire, at seven o’clock in the morning—one
5    yesterday,  the  other  to-day!  ‘‘Comets  importing  change  of  weary  times!’’  ye  are
outgeneraled!





10    December 18, 1846


[Revolutionary Patriots]


    It was only two or three days ago that we chronicled the decease of a Revolu- tionary patriot. Since then, we have learned that another of those true good men—
15    whose living hearts were Freedom’s shields in the days of her dark struggles—has quit the toil of mortality, and gone to his home. Alas! the passing upward of these old pa- triots always makes us sad—for while they are with us, the scenes of the Liberty-birth are to our mind as vivid as the light; and often, as we have looked upon the revered features of some one of the Revolution’s sons, and seen the fiery glow which illumined
20    face and eye, as he spoke of the men and scenes of the sacred days, and dwelt upon the cherished name and fame of the matchless WASHINGTON —often, with our whole heart, have we thanked God that we were vouchsafed this communion  with  these men—the instruments wherewith He builded up this freest nation of the earth. But the time  is  hard  by  when  all  these  bold  ones  will  have  passed  away,  and  the  only
25    mementos left to Americans of their Freedom’s battledays, will be History and  our blessed Institutions. [Revolutionary War incident in life of patriot who died omitted—
27 1⁄2     ll.]




30
December 18, 1846



New York City, &c.


It is stated that Mr. Poe, the poet and author, now lies dangerously ill with the
35    brain fever, and that his wife is in the last stages of consumption.—They are said to be
‘‘without money and without friends, actually suffering from disease and destitution
in New York.’’



40

December 19, 1846
The Republic of Cracow ‘Extinguished’

45		We have occasionally (like other fault-finders,) expressed vexation at the exag- gerated mode of our American national vanity—the superlative complacency with which our state documents and 4th of July orations assume that we are not only ‘‘a leetle’’ but altogether ahead of the nations of Europe, in every thing that makes life

  	153


valuable.  But  by’r  troth!  we  sometimes  read  of  things  done—and  done  with impunity—by  the  princes  to  the  men  of  Europe  which  make  us  think  that  were American vanity for what we have and do here, doubly exaggerated and made ten times as superlative, it would not go a bit too far. . . . . . . . . . . . Listen! men of the New World! but for one hour to the tale of oppression (a monotonous sentence, but not	5 near as monotonous as the long and dreary reality which it signifies)—to the hellish wrongs of the coroneted few on the continent of Europe toward the masses—which those masses tamely bear—and you will hardly fail to agree with us, in this thing. Listen to this new tale of ‘‘Cracow extinguished’’—of a people crushed, as a clown would crush a creeping insect by a spiteful stamp of his heel! Then compare the great  10 scope of true freedom which men enjoy here; for it is only by such comparison that we
can begin to understand its value.
[Quotation and its introduction omitted—21 ll.]

15



December 21, 1846


Set Down Your Feet, Democrats!


    If there are any States to be formed out of territory lately annexed, or to be  20 annexed, by any means to the United States, let the Democratic members of Congress, (and Whigs too, if they like,) plant themselves quietly, without bluster, but fixedly and without compromise, on the requirement that Slavery be prohibited in them forever. We wish we could have a universal straight-forward setting down of feet on this thing, in
the Democratic party. We must.	25





December 21, 1846


School Arithmetic	30


    To teachers who have felt the want of good text books, (as what teacher has not?) we think we can conscientiously recommend the Practical Arithmetic, prepared by James B. Thompson, and published by Mark H. Newman, 199 Broadway, N. Y. It needs
but an examination and trial of its merits, to make itself its best recommendation.  35
Can it not be put in our Brooklyn schools?





December 21, 1846

40
Books Just Published


THE    EMIGRANT. By Sir Francis B. Head. Harpers, 82 Cliff st., N. Y.
Well known—and that in both acceptations of the phrase—is the author of this
work to the literary world, as to his capacity for writing a readable book, . . . . . . . . .  45
‘The Emigrant’ involves most of the political history and movements in Canada for the
last twelve years—taking some views in which we would join the writer, and some in
which we would not. It also has some reading of a miscellaneous and lighter character.

154	  


THE    LIVES   OF   DR.  JOHN   DONNE,   SIR    HENRY   WOTTON,  MR.  RICHARD   HOOKER,  MR.
GEORGE   HERBERT,   and  DR.  ROBERT   SANDERSON.  By  Izaak  Walton.  With  some
account of the author and his writings. By Thomas Zouch, Prebendary of Durham.
A new edition, with illustrative Notes, etc. In two parts. Wiley and Putnam, 161
5	Broadway, N. Y.
On more reasons than one, it is refreshing to meet with such works as these. It is
refreshing to peruse a style of charming simplicity, ingrained with a manly natural
elegance. The life of gentle Izaak himself is the most interesting part of the work. . . . . . 
It forms Nos. 91 and 92 of Wiley & Putnam’s Library of Choice Reading.
10
THE   USE   OF  THE  BODY  IN  RELATION  TO  THE  MIND. By George Moore, M.D., member of the Royal College of Physicians, etc. Harpers.
    We have marked several paragraphs and pages in this book, to be extracted in our paper, at an early opportunity; for the book is full of such sort of reading as will do
15    good. . . . . . . . . . . . Few persons realize how intimate the relation of mental causes and processes toward the body, and its well or ill being. This book will aid to make the world become more enlightened thereon.

PARENTAL   INSTRUCTIONS; OR    GUIDE   TO   WISDOM   AND  VIRTUE.   Designed for  Young
20	Persons of either sex.—Selected mainly from the writings of an eminent Physi-
cian. Harpers.
Two hundred and forty four pleasing sketches, tales, and anecdotes, are contained
in this book.—Moral in their tone, and interesting, they seem well fitted to benefit youth.

25    MY  FATHER AND  MY MOTHER. By Mrs. Helen E. Henderson. J. C. Riker, 129 Fulton st., N. Y.
A little work, this, full of filial sentiment—and inculcating it in every page! The
frontispiece is very pretty.




30
December 22, 1846



‘No License’


—As a friend of Temperance—yielding to none in our desire to promulge and
35    encourage that virtue—we feel desirous of entering our rejoinder, in an humble way, to
the insolent and sophistical article in the N. Y. Tribune of this morning, on the subject of
the new Excise law regulating the traffic in ardent spirits. The Tribune acknowledges in
effect, that the law don’t work well, in those places where the ‘No License’ vote carried
the day. Of course it will not defend the ‘License’ places. And now it wants the
40    question again submitted to the people of the whole State, in a body, and tauntingly
asks if the ‘‘Liberals’’ will ‘‘dare’’ submit it so. Whether they do or not makes no
difference in the important certainty that if the question were submitted, and decided
‘‘No License,’’ the same difficulties, only trebled in their amount, would come back upon
us all then! Does not the Tribune see this? How can it ask such a submission in the face
45    of its own acknowledgment that so many ‘‘men are ready and willing to violate the
law,’’ and that ‘‘Grand Juries refuse to find bills against notorious offenders, on the
assumption that the Excise law is unconstitutional’’?
—Alas! how strange it is, that—in the face of mountains of cogent ‘reasons why,’

  	155


in the shape of the facts of the past—men, in their advocacy of great and true moral reforms, will not bend their efforts to the reform itself, and not adulterate its excellent purity, by throwing in the stained drops of petty political excitement, personal fear or favor, and so on! The duty of the promulger of all moral reforms is very simple—being nothing more than to advocate and illustrate, the more enthusiastically the better, his	5 doctrine—and carefully abstain from identifying it or himself with any of the cliques
or the passing notions of the time.





December 22, 1846

10

Theatricals


    Our little favorites, the Viennoise children, still hold possession of the stage at the Park theatre, N. Y. How charming they are! How they grow upon the love, too, every  15 successive evening! How specially enchanting is that dance of ‘‘the Savages and the Mirror ’’! with the graceful attitudes, tallied by similar graceful attitudes! . . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Forrest, we see, is to commence an engagement at the Park on Friday night next— and to be followed by Mr. Anderson. Would it not be a happy thought to join the two
in the same play? Both these actors are great favorites of ours. Forrest exemplifies a  20 sort  of  massive  freshness—a  freedom  from  the  cant  of  playing—has  a  kind  of thoroughness in all he says and does—which it is quite beautiful to see. Still the other
is our preference, for his smoothness, his buoyancy, and his fluent ease and grace upon the stage. Indeed, not excepting Macready, the best actor, take him all in all, (though he does  not come up to our idea of a really great actor) we for many years have had  25 among us is Anderson.—His personal advantages are unusually good; in such charac-
ters as Claud Melnotte, and even in Ion, he is hardly excelable. Mr. A. is ‘great’ as far as he  adheres to Nature, the true and only copy for both dramatist and player. But Anderson has not the highest genius and sensibility—he has merely, (that is a great deal too) good taste, and the penetration to see that meretricious work upon the stage  30 makes matters worse instead of better. It is the case in nearly all the institutions of the world, that though they are founded at first in simplicity and wholesome strength, they get gradually overgrown, as years pass, with much that is false, unnatural, and absurd. So it is with government—much so it is with religion—and so also it is to a great extent with the drama. In the classic theatres of Athens, or even under the less  35 purified taste of Roscius, though the accessories of the stage were worse than now—a thousand things that now hold permanent place in the customs of the stage, would then have been very properly scouted at as altogether wrong. We have in these matters gone backward instead of forward. We need a labor of cutting away, more than a labor
of adding to.	40





December 22, 1846


‘Important Announcement’	45


    The Brooklyn Eagle wishes every body in general, and some persons in particular, to understand that it considers its presence at any public place—at any place, where it
    
156	  


goes in its capacity as the B.E.—to be a special favor, a thing for the place and persons visited to show themselves thankful for, and to bless their stars for. As to the ‘courtesy’ of gratuitous tickets, little gifts, (to be noticed in the paper, which notice brings more good to them than ten times the value of said gifts,) and all that sort of thing, long
5    custom has quite staled us to the delicious privilege. The Eagle will always like to go among its friends—will always like to be generous in the bestowal of its favors—but it must be with the clear understanding that no obligation is conferred upon it. . . . . . These words are said in complete good nature—and without any special application— but for ‘all future time.’ Moreover, when the Eagle’s presence at a given place is wished
10    for, it must be solicited by the polite means of special invitation, accompanied by ample ‘cards of admission,’ &c.; it not being in the range of human possibilities or condescensions for the E. to explain at the doors of places that it is the E.



15

December 22, 1846
Health and Prosperity Go with Him!

20		Henry Clay arrived in New Orleans on board the steamer Magnolia on the 11th inst. He spends the winter in the Crescent City. And there may he spend it pleasantly, and well! For Henry Clay is a noble souled fellow—barring his politics. And even with them, he is the truest, heartiest man the Whigs ever had! ‘Luck’ to him we say again— in every thing but the Presidency!
25



December 23, 1846
30	Will We Never Have Any Better State of Things?

    There is not a fact which can bring more irrefragable evidences to prove itself, than that the Post Office Department of the U. S. is the most mismanaged ‘concern’ of any general business institution in the world! It is a living oration and argument
35    against the power of the government to compete with individual enterprise and quick- sightedness—against the results of the monopolizing spirit. . . . . . But even as it is, the P. O. might be a great deal better. The present P. M. G. is not fit for his station. We want an active Yankee—a fellow who is ‘up to the age’—at the head of that Department.
40




December 23, 1846
45


Ultraism


    A church in Tenth st., Philadelphia, lately dismissed a celebrated vocalist—a widow with two children—because her name appeared on a concert bill!
    
  	157




December 23, 1846


For the Boys


Seven classes of company to be avoided:
1.	Those who ridicule their parents or disobey their commands.	5
2.	Those who profane the Sabbath, or scoff at religion.
3.	Those who use profane and filthy language.
4.	Those who are unfaithful, play truant, and waste their time in idleness.
5.	Those who are of a quarrelsome temper, and are apt to get into difficulty with
others.	10
6.	Those who are addicted to lying and stealing.
7.	Those who are of a cruel disposition;—who take pleasure in torturing and
maiming animals and insects, robbing birds of their young, &c.
All these classes of companions are to be avoided; for, if you associate with them,
they will soon make you like themselves.	15





December 24, 1846


‘A Merry Christmas’ Wishes	20

the Eagle to Its Readers, (in Advance)

    ‘‘Glory to God in the highest, and on earth Peace, Good-Will toward men!’’ sang the Angel Annunciator more than eighteen centuries ago—sang in the ears of a world that amid an intellectual developement greater in some things than has ever been seen  25 since, yet knew not the beauty and moral grandeur of this new proclamation! ‘‘Fear not,’’ said the same heavenly visitant, ‘‘for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.’’ Then Christ, the Pure Paragon, was born and laid in a manger. Then vitality started in manifold seeds of true good which had for ages lain dormant in humanity. Ah, Thou whose office it was ‘‘to give light to them that sit in  30 darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of Peace,’’ how the hearts of the children of men yet turn to Thy soothing counsels; and how refreshing to know that the same founts of consolation at which we drink, have been tasted by the now dead and past ages, and still by thousands and thousands every day! How many have, in some phase or other, hourly realized the aspirations of the gentle Spaniard:  35 [Poem omitted—14 1⁄2     ll.]
    —A Merry Christmas! wishes the Brooklyn Eagle to every one whom it knows— and whom it don’t know too, for that matter. Merry, not in the smaller sense of sensual vivacity, but in the larger one of a satisfied conscience, health, and a ‘happy state of mind.’
[Poem and its introduction omitted—45 ll.]	40





December 26, 1846


The West	45


Radical,  true,  far-scoped,  and  thorough-going  Democracy  may  expect,  (and  such expecting will be realized,) great things from the West! The hardy denizens of those

158	  


regions, where common wants and the cheapness of the land level conventionalism, (that poison to the Democratic vitality) begin at the roots of things—at first principles—and scorn the doctrines founded on mere precedent and imitation. . . . . . There is something refreshing even in the extremes, the faults, of Western character.
5  Neither need the political or social fabric expect half as much harm from those untutored impulses, as from the staled and artificialized influence which enters too much into politics amid richer (not really richer, either) and older-settled sections.



10

December 26, 1846
‘The Gladiator’—Mr. Forrest—Acting

15		From footlights to lobby doors—from floor to dome—were packed crowds of people last night (25th) at the Park Theatre, N. Y., to see Mr. Forrest in the Gladia- tor. . . . . . This play is as full of ‘Abolitionism’ as an egg is of meat. It is founded on that passage of Roman history where the slaves—Gallic, Spanish, Thracian and African—rose against their masters, and formed themselves into a military organiza-
20    tion, and for a time successfully resisted the forces sent to quell them. Running o’er with sentiments of liberty—with eloquent disclaimers of the right of the Romans to hold human beings in bondage—it is a play, this Gladiator, calculated to make the hearts of the masses swell responsively to all those nobler manlier aspirations in behalf of mortal freedom!—The speech of Spartacus, in which he attributes the grandeur and
25    wealth of Rome, to her devastation of other countries, is fine; and Mr. Forrest delivered it  passing  well.  Indeed,  in  the  first part  of  the  play,  this  favorite  actor,  with  his herculean proportions, was evidently i’ the vein—but the later parts were not so well gone through with. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We do not intend the following reflections—which started during the view of Mr.
30    Forrest’s performances—to bear directly on that actor. Mr. F. is a deserved favorite with the public—and has high talent in his profession. But the danger is, that as he has to a measure become identified with a sort of American style of acting, the crowd of vapid imitators may spread quite all the faults of that style, with none of its excellencies. Indeed, too, in candor, all persons of thought will confess to no great
35    fondness for acting which particularly seeks to ‘‘tickle the ears of the groundlings.’’ We allude to the loud mouthed ranting style—the tearing of every thing to shivers— which is so much the ambition of some of our players, particularly the young ones. It does in such cases truly seem as if some of Nature’s journeymen had made men, and not made them well—they imitate humanity so abominably. They take every occasion,
40    in season and out of season, to try the extremest strength of their lungs. They never let a part of their dialogue which falls in the imperative mood—the mood for exhorting, commanding, or permitting—pass by without the loudest exhibition of sound, and the most distorted gesture. If they have to enact passion, they do so by all kinds of unnatural and violent jerks, swings, screwing of the nerves of the face, rolling of the
45    eyes, and so on. To men of taste, all this is exceedingly ridiculous. And even among the inferior portion of the audience, it does not always pass safely. We have frequently seen rough boys in the pit, with an expression of sovereign contempt at performances of this sort.—For there is something in real nature which comes home to the ‘‘business

  	159


and bosoms’’ of all men.—Who ever saw love made as it is generally made upon the stage? How often have we heard spontaneous bursts of approbation from inferior audiences, toward acting of the most unpretending kind, merely because it was simple, truthful, and natural! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
If we thought these remarks would meet the eye of any young theatrical artist, we	5
would like through him to beg all—for we cannot call to mind any who are not more
or less tainted with this vice—to take such hints as the foregoing, to their hearts—aye,
to their heart of hearts. It is a common fallacy to think that an exaggerated, noisy, and
inflated  style  of  acting—and  no  other—will  produce  the  desired  effect  upon  a
promiscuous audience. But those who have observed things, Theatres, and human  10
nature, know better. Where is there a good, truthful player that is not appreciated?
Who, during the past season, has dared compare the quiet polish of Mrs. Kean with the
lofty pretensions of the general run of tragedy queens?

15



December 26, 1846


Book Notices


Robinson Crusoe—that juvenile classic—has been seasonably published by the  20
Harpers, in various styles of binding, some of them very tasty indeed. Lives there the
boy that ha’nt read Crusoe? If so, he is to be pitied; and his papa and friends are to be
blamed for not presenting him with it. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Another very pretty book, Flowers of Fable—and still another, Evenings at Home—have
been published also by the Harpers. And there is this point to be remembered about  25
the works brought out by the Great Firm—that they are always of a moral and un-
sectarian  class. . . . . . .  The  works  we  have  mentioned  are  well  adorned  with
pictures—without which adornment, we would’nt give a fig for a book for children!

30



December 28, 1846


‘That’ Ruin


    Where is that Ruin which the Whig organs—the Advertiser yelping its little yelp  35 with the bluff growls of the others—predicted as the result of the terrible Free Trade tariff (‘black swan’) affording only 30 per cent. protection? Will the Adv. enlighten the mechanics of Brooklyn, whom it grieved over so mournfully, while wintering them in
the Poor House, in its imagination?
40




December 28, 1846


Sign-Posts of the Times
45

    There is at the present period—and has been for a season past—an unusually large issue of New Books. Fresh batches are announced every day; and as it is necessary for all editors, and readers too, who would keep pace with the times, to keep
    
160	  


pace with these sign-posts of the times—for such are new books—our good Eagle will proceed to discuss the merits of the latter ones. . . . . . . Fact and Fiction, by Mrs. L. M. Child, (C. S. Francis, 252 Broadway, N. Y.) scoops together fifteen of the most musical, gentle, idle, polished, hearty sketches written by any writer of the present day! What
5    the wind-harp named from Æolus is in music—what music itself is among the art— such it may hardly be amiss to liken Mrs. Child among literary persons. Impulsive and fanciful—apparently never analyzing her own feelings, but giving them vent, whither- soever  their  waywardness  leads  them—possessing  an  abundance  of  the  milk  of human kindness—such is this sweet and to us always agreeable authoress. These
10    stories, now, are all filled with an influence that will surely penetrate their readers’ hearts with the warmth of beautiful love! . . . . . . Fables for Children is the third number of a series of little books for youth, prepared by the same writer, and published by the same house. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Letters on Astronomy, by Prof. Olmstead of Yale College, comes from the all-producing
15    press of the Harpers. The work has been published before, several editions of it; and that another is called for may be looked upon as good evidence of the merits of all. Astronomy! the noble, exalting science!—Welcome is every book that helps increase the knowledge of its sublime truths! By-the-by, are not the clear vitreous nights now current,  (with  exceptions)  specially  serviceable  for  the  practical  study  of  the  orbs
20    above?  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Dunigan’s Home Library, (pub. 151 Fulton street, N. Y.; for sale in Brooklyn at Thomas
O’Donnell’s, 252 Fulton st.) is a series of elegantly written works tinged with Roman
Catholicism—and tinged with many sweet and wholesome morals, too. With the
Catholicism we have nothing to do—but to the morals no one can object. Another
25    word we will here take occasion to say—that the too frequent in this country vain and
scornful  pride  which,  toward  many  poor  servant  and  other  women,  flouts  them
because they are ‘Catholics,’ might far better turn its prying sight within—might better
cleanse the heart which has such a lack of Christian charity as to jeer at the earnestly
believed faith of any honest soul! . . . . . . Nos. 5 and 6 of the ‘Library’ are the Sister of
30    Charity; No. 7, Julia Ormond; and No. 8, The Elder’s House. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Among their many excellent works for young persons, the Harpers have just issued
one, Hutton’s Book of Nature laid open. It treats, in a plain style, of vegetable and animal
physiology—of the ocean, the atmosphere, and something of the solar system. . . . . 
Leila, Bulwer’s novel, is also printed by the Harpers, in a ‘pocket edition,’ for 12 1⁄2  cents.—
35    Also, Fortescue, by James Sheridan Knowles, who now first tries his hand as a novelist.





December 28, 1846
40


A Funeral by Moonlight


    Coming up Myrtle avenue last evening (27th) just as day was ‘changing off’ with the pale clear moonlight, we heard afar the wailing mournful sound of melancholy music—a  dead  march,  played  slowly  and  sadly  by  a  military  band.  The  solemn
45    melody was in keeping with the scene. All was the stillness of a Sabbath evening in
Spring—for the air had an April balminess. Presently, with measured tread, the hearse

  	161


and procession approached, escorted by a corps of uniformed soldiers, whereof the dead man had been a member. It was a good thought to postpone this funeral till moonlight—whosoever ’s thought it was! For who knows not, among the thousand analogies which Nature presents to human life and death, the ever-apparent ones of morning to youth, noon to maturity, evening and death? Nor could the most matter-of-	5 fact spectator, standing on the curb-stone there, have seen that train of mourners pass
on in the ghostly light, and heard the cadences of that melody sinking sweetly and faintly in the distance, without realizing the beautiful part of death—of the passing away of the soul from the clayey tenant of that hearse!

‘‘Dim grow its fancies;	10
Forgotten they  lie;
Like  coals in the  ashes,
They  darken and  die.
Song  sinks into  silence,
The  story is told,	15
The  windows are  darkened,
The  hearth-stone is  cold.
Darker  and  darker
The  black shadows  fall,
Sleep  and oblivion	20
Reign  over  all.’’

    It was pleasant to see that the crowds who filled the street, the windows, and the porches of houses, were subdued and genialized by some such thoughts as uttered those dreamy lines. For the depth of radical poetry lies in the hearts of all men, low and high; and we would it were oftener developed than it is by the monotonous customs  25 of our working-day land.




December 29, 1846	30
A Paragraph for the English Abolitionists

    In Russia and Austria there are fifty millions of white slaves. Our Southern States hold in slavery two millions seven hundred thousand negroes; and the world is filled  35 with the stories of American cruelty, while the fate of fifty millions of white men, physically as good of their owners, don’t seem to attract the slightest attention; and the idea of remonstrating with the Emperor of Russia never entered the head of Mr. Garrison, or any other abolitionist. How is this? asks the Providence Sentinel. Is there
not too much tendency in the world to extract motes, whilst the eye full of ‘‘beams’’  40 remains untouched? Many of these Russian slaves are men and women of education and  refinement—pursuing various important arts and callings—some possessed of considerable wealth—and yet they are all of them, the high and the humble, liable to instant degradation in every form, at the caprice of their owners. While this state of things is existing, ought all the philanthropy in the world to be solely and intensely  45 directed to the blacks of the South?

162	  




December 30, 1846


[Book Notices]


Hallowed from innovation be the time honored legends, long told to and read by
5    childhood!  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The Butterfly’s Ball, (pub. by Wiley & Putnam, N. Y.) includes the sad history of Cock
Robin, and the vivacious adventures of that maternal dame Hubbard, who had such a
remarkable dog. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Herdsmen and Tillers of the Ground, (same pub.) is a very neat little volume, with colored
10    plates; it describes pastoral life among the Eastern and earlier nations. Such books
are refreshing and good.





15    January 2, 1847


Government


    One  of  the  favorite  doctrines  of  leading  Whigs  teaches  the  intricacy  and profundity of the science of government. According to them, the most elaborate study
20    and education are required in any one who would comprehend the deep mysteries, the hidden wonders, of the ruling of a nation, and the controlling of a people. Nor is this doctrine confined altogether to the Whigs: many in our own ranks acknowledge its truth, and infer from its premises. We have Democrats, and not obscure ones either, who hesitate not to act, (whatever they may say,) in a manner acknowledging assent to
25    the same views. Really, however, the principles that lie at the root of true government, are not hard of comprehension. The error lies in the desire after management, the great curse of our Legislation: every thing is to be regulated and made straight by force of statute. And all this while, evils are accumulating, in very consequence of excessive management. The true office of government, is simply to preserve the rights of each
30    citizen from spoliation: when it attempts to go beyond this, it is instrusive, and does more harm than good.





35    January 4, 1847



The War—The Late Alleged Revolution in  Some of the Departments of Mexico


40		Speculations on what will probably come to pass in the further action of the Mexican war—what the Governments intend to do, and what Gen. Taylor ought to do—are so numerous and common, not to say idle, that the Brooklyn Eagle may well be excused from contributing its mite to the general stock; especially as it don’t pretend to have the gifts of prophecy or omniscience. One thing, however, quite all will agree
45    upon; and that is a devout wish for the very earliest possible honorable PEACE. It needs, at this age of the world, and in this land, no labored argument to prove the long list of monstrous evils that come in the train of War—how every beautiful doctrine, every

  	163


Democratic reform, on which the ardent hopes of the Philanthropists of this age are fixed, wilt under the influence of War, as a growing tree, through whose verdure sweeps the hottest flame!
    We among the rest, have upheld the President, and the progress and action of our gallant troops on the Rio Grande, and the justice of the cause of the United States. We	5 do so still. Mexico has just as surely been the aggriever, for long long years past, toward us, as that God rules in Heaven. And as to all this party balderdash of the Whigs against the Administration, for the most contemptible purposes of demagogueism— taking the sacred mantle of Peace-preaching, to cover their real purposes of selfishness and spite—it needs no answer:—the future will set it right. But the time has arrived  10 when all citizens should speak candidly and firmly on this subject of the Mexican War.
Let  it  go  no  further!  Enough  has  been  done  to  revenge  our  offended  honor.  The
Mexicans have been punished enough.

15



January 4, 1847


True Yankee Talent—

A Word about Fostering Precocity in Children
20
    If the American public do not eventually appreciate, in full, the superb perfor- mances of Apollonean children, (whose last concert is held to-morrow evening,) said public will be blinder even than certain foreign tourists have accused them of being, to the beautiful and the refined. There is no doubt that these children are among the most
talented  musicians  of  the  age—and  that,  too,  at  a  period  when  most  youths  are  25 learning the rules of grammar and that famous ‘Tare and Fret’ which is averred to make the juvenile student ‘sweat’. . . . . . . . . . . . The Brooklyn Eagle is so well pleased with  these  divine  little  creatures,  that  it  takes  the  liberty  of  enjoining  on  their guardians—(for they are evidently among those ‘‘whom the gods love’’: but Oh! we hope they will not carry out the old proverb!)—it takes the liberty of deprecating too  30 much mental exercise, for them.—They are too valuable to be martyred! Let them have plenty of out-door exercise—active physical recreation and employment. As the B. E.
has gazed in the fine face, the large prematurely angelic and full eyes of the girl—the sweet, fair haired one! it has trembled to think—on what it thought. . . . Surely it is hardly needful to add that these lines are written from the truest kindness.	35





January 4, 1847


Death of Owen Flood	40


    The sad occurrence, on New Year ’s day, which involved the death of Owen Flood, was one which will be lastingly regretted by many a poor fellow hereabout, for months to come. Mr. Flood was one of the sturdy, unsophisticated characters of Brooklyn—of
unimpeachable honesty, of great benevolence, and untiring industry. The sphere of his  45 life removed him from the opportunities of education; yet, as he had much natural shrewdness, and proverbial integrity, nobody feared to trust him—and since his death,

164	  


we have heard several instances of the confidence reposed in his business talent . . . . . We are of those who think that where the heart is right, the reality resides, which is far better than all the mere superficial. That Owen Flood’s heart was right, no one will deny, who knew him. Many a poverty stricken countryman has he assisted with his
5    counsel and his means; many a dispute and difficulty among them has he peaceably arbitrated or prevented. The prodigious turn-out at his funeral yesterday was the best test in the world of the estimation in which Mr. F. was held. It was no tribute to official rank or to fame—but a testimonial to worth of heart, to unassuming goodness, and to merit that made no parade.
10




January 4, 1847

15


[Viennoise Children]

    ‘Les pas des Moissoneurs, or the Wheatsheaf Dance,’ by the Viennoise children, at the Park theatre, N. Y., is one of the prettiest ballet spectacles ever gazed at by eyes that could appreciate grace and harmony! The stage is thrown open to its amplest capacity, and the well painted scene represents a harvest field, the grain just gathered, and all
20    mellowed in the light of a golden sun declining.—The villagers—lads and lasses— appear reclining from their labor. They dance for recreation. They bring huge sheafs, and dance athwart, and chase each other sportively among them. It is a poetical and gladdening sight. One of the groupings is the most perfect tableau in the world! The sheafs are piled, at random as it were, into three heaps—sheafs and children mingled
25    together—the smaller girls lying asleep at the base at full length, and some of the boys tossed helter-skelter in the straw, and others leaning down their faces on their arms. Ah, such a spectacle comes to the senses like a glimpse of the grace of Paradise! . . . . . . Then they dance loosely to the music. Then each gets a flail; and forming themselves into a circle they thrash the grain. In conclusion they form another grand tableau, and
30    the curtain descends to the light of red and blue fire;—which latter item we demur to, and advise the directress to leave out altogether—for it adds not a bit to the beauty, and destroys the artistic harmony.




35
January 5, 1847



Slavery in New American Territory


It is a significant evidence of ‘public opinion’ among our Democratic legislators in
40    Congress, that they quite all, (the exceptions are few indeed,) evince by their votes, the
determination that there shall be no slavery in whatever new territory is to be annexed
to the U. S. by means of this Mexican war. Such is the purport of the Resolution offered
by  Mr.  Preston  King,  (Dem.  M.  C.  from  the  18th  District  in  this  State). . . . . . . . . 
Looking over Jefferson’s writings, the other evening, we came across the following
45    item:  ‘‘What  a  stupendous,  what  an  incomprehensible  machine  is  man!  who  can
endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment and death itself, in vindication of his own
liberty, and the next moment be deaf to all those motives whose power supported him

  	165


through his trial, and inflict on his fellow men a bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of what he rose in rebellion to oppose.’’





January 6, 1847

5

‘In the Twinkling of an Eye’


    Mr. Young’s first message.—The Governor ’s message, which we publish to-day, was transmitted, (5000 words) from Albany to New York yesterday (5th) by magnetic  10 telegraph, after 12 o’clock, and was in type, printed, and for sale in Brooklyn and New York, by 4 o’cl’k! . . . . . . We reserve comments upon the M. till another day.





January 6, 1847

15

Another School Officer Proposed


    It was proposed in the Board of Education yesterday to appoint another school officer, whose especial duty it shall be to visit and examine, &c. the Public Schools of  20
Brooklyn city.





January 6, 1847

25
High School in Brooklyn


Mr. C. P. Smith’s res. in the Board of Education, to take measures to establish a
High School in Brooklyn, is a very good res., and must be carried out.
30




January 7, 1847


Scraps of Education
35

    Gold is more frequently found in grains than in lumps, and it is not less valuable on that account. So with knowledge. Fragments which united make up the intellectual storehouse. John Adams said in an epistle to his wife—‘The education of our children is never out of my mind. Train them to virtue. Habituate them to industry, activity, and
spirit. Make them consider every vice shameful and unmanly. Fire them with ambition  40 to be useful. Make them disdain to be destitute of any useful or ornamental knowl- edge.’  What  says  Horace  Mann?  ‘Every  friend  of  education,  who  insists  upon qualifications superior to the present, is bound to do his part towards furnishing facilities and encouragements by which they can be acquired. We cannot consequently denounce a state of things which we do nothing to improve.’ Martin Luther has said of  45 education: ‘In every age, even among the heathen, the necessity has been felt of having good  schoolmasters  in  order  to  make  anything  respectable  of  a  nation.  But

166	  


surely we are not to sit still and wait until they grow up of themselves. We can neither chop them out of wood, nor hew them out of stone. God will work no miracles to furnish that which we have means to provide. We must, therefore apply our care and money to train up and make them.’
5



January 8, 1847
10	Thirty-Two Years Since—8th of January, 1815

    When, at the close (as it eventually proved,) of the war of 1814, Gen. Jackson repaired to New Orleans—after his celebrated pursuit of certain British emissaries into Pensacola—he found it indeed true that the enemy was preparing for a grand
15    ascent to the South-west through New Orleans. [Description of land battle omitted—
38 1⁄2   ll.]
Nor need we fail to add that the brilliant close of this war on the land was tallied
by as brilliant a close at sea. Within a few weeks after the glorious Victory of New
Orleans,  the  American  frigate  Constitution,  (bless  her  old  timbers!)  captured  the
20    British Cyane and the Levant—and the Hornet walked into the Penguin. In each case
(as in the land engagement,) the defeated were of superior force to the captors!





25    January 9, 1847


[School Tax]


    It was well remarked by an intelligent old farmer, ‘‘I would rather be taxed for the education  of  the  boy  than  the  ignorance  of  the  man.  For  one  or  the  other  I  am
30    compelled to do.’’





January 12, 1847
35


Monkeyism in Brooklyn


    Among the sights that go to make a man’s stomach qualmy, is that monkeyism of literature, involved in a few gentlemen, (very well in their places, but very silly when they reach higher) getting together, and ‘adoring’ and ‘doting’ on Byron, Scott, and
40    ‘sentiment’—making pretensions to criticism, with about as much ability that way as a smart little counter-jumper might have to rule the Treasury Department. . . . . . At the anniversary of the Hamilton Literary Association last evening, (11th) after a long string of toasts of a character the very opposite of American, one of the guests—a citizen of New York—had the audacious vulgarity to think that it might not be out of time to
45    remember (the low-bred fellow!) that there was such a republic as his own on the surface of the earth—and accordingly gave: ‘‘The United States of America—an independent country, not a suburb of London,’’—which was partially hissed! Is it too much to say that this was a specimen of the monkeyism of literature?

  	167




January 13, 1847


[Schooling in Sparta]


    Among the ancient Spartans an old man, who had neglected to instruct his sons in some useful employment, was not entitled to receive the respect of the young men of	5 the State when he came into their public assemblies. Standing among them with his head covered with gray hair, no one was bound to rise and give him a seat.



10

January 14, 1847
The Fools of the Nineteenth Century Trying
to Kill the Goose That Lays Their Golden Eggs
15
    Among the subjects on which people have been privileged to go mad, and to take silly action, from time immemorial, are taxes and medicine. When a man grows ever so little unwell—instead of returning to nature, which would so often remedy the result of non-compliance with sanitary law—the cry is
‘‘Go call the doctor! ride with speed!’’	20
And when that gentleman comes, ‘‘he ne’er forgets his Cal-omel.’’. . . . . . When a
legislative corps wants to try its hand at enacting especially foolish laws—laws that
will annoy every body in some way, and do no body any real good in any way—it
developes its folly by attempting some of the phases of taxation. Thus in old times
almost everything has been taxed; directly or indirectly—not only tangible things, but  25
immaterialities. And it is the hardest task in the world to un-tax any thing again, after
the taste of the stimulant has once been thoroughly obtained: because a thousand
selfish interests grow up from prolific taxation, which will fight to the death, before
they give up the blood-sucked fountains of their life! This it is, more than any thing
else, that makes all kinds of officious taxation so full of danger. The mere paying of a  30
few thousand dollars for two or three seasons is not important. Having a tickled throat
and a slight cough for a while, is not very important, either; but where those trivial
ailments evidence the sure verging, unless quelled, into an irremediable decay of the
lungs, the matter assumes a somewhat different aspect.
As money must be raised, however, for the expenses of the government, the ques-  35
tion  is  resolved  into  that  mode  of  taxation  which  is  the  simplest,  least  liable  to
litigation, and the fairest to all parties. This is effected by taxation on real property, or
real estate. All other objects of taxation are liable to so many escapes and so many
injustices, that they cannot for a moment compare with real estate.—Besides, whatever
expense falls upon real estate is filtered through upon all business, upon operatives,  40
upon work, upon consumption, upon capital, upon the strength of the poor man’s
sinews, and the industry of the farmer in his fields. . . . . . These Aldermen of N. Y.
who would tax non-residents’ personal values, thrown into N. Y. by their owners in
such channels of business as to increase the wealth and resources of that metropolis, are the
greatest Fools the Nineteenth Century has yet produced! The injustice of the move is  45
evident enough; but this might be pardoned, if it were not at the same time so silly.
Besides being silly, it may likewise prove impracticable. The N. Y. Express of this morn-
ing, which is generally ready to grab all it can in the way of high duties, says:

168	  


    ‘‘The tax on merchants residing in Brooklyn, Jersey City, Staten Island, and other places, will be difficult to collect. These persons pay taxes in the counties where they reside. How far it may be possible to collect a double tax, remains to be seen.’’

We remarked the other day that impositions on personal property, by an old and
5    wise rule of law, always follow the person. There is no other way of managing it. A truer
way still would be to stop the practice of taxing personals altogether. This will no doubt
strike certain thick-headed gentlemen as quite a wild heresy: wilder heresies, though,
have been put in shape and operation in time. . . . . . . . . The bother of collecting the
proposed tax is also thus alluded to in the N. Y. Mirror of last evening:

10		‘‘The city must pay its own expenses, and if personal property is not taxed, an additional tax must be laid upon real estate, so that what is gained in one way is lost in another.’’. . . . . . ‘‘The subject will be full of difficulties, and if the bill should become a law, we foresee a vast amount of litigation and trouble in determining who are  proper subjects of taxation.’’

—New York ought to be really too great, rich, and noble a city, to think of adopt-
15    ing these petty means of increasing her revenues—nominally increasing them, but in
fact taking away the nest-eggs of her prosperity. Let her rise above such narrow views,
and  realize  the  widest  scope  of  what  such  a  metropolis  should  be  and  do!  The
compulsory inspections—one form of taxes—are already abolished: let her chase off
her island all the kindred—a most wicked stock—of that unprofitable family! As to the
20    proposed wharf tax, surely its own absurdity must prevent its sober consideration by
the Legislature. It is as though there were two inns, with two owners, and one should
be senseless enough to put a raised drawbridge across the lane that leads to his very
door! . . . . . . The immigrant tax we shall take occasion to treat of in another article.

25



January 14, 1847


[A Free Press]


30		The editor of the N. Y. Tribune was burnt in effigy last night, before his own office, at which groans, &c. were cast, by certain exuberant gentlemen. B.E. denounces many—perhaps most—opinions of the T.; but in this country the liberty of thought and expression is sacred; and no power on earth—President, king, party or mob— nothing but the law, (when he outrages it,) has the right to attempt forcible measures
35    for restraining the conductor of a free press, in this free country, from writing and printing as he thinks meet. . . . . . Once give in this constitution-guarded right—one of the dearest which an American citizen enjoys—and we shall all come to a pretty how-d’e-do.

40



January 15, 1847


[The ‘‘Advertiser’’]


45		Goethe avers that after all the happiest persons are the brainless ones—those who never think. If this is so, we are sure the Brooklyn Advertiser’s existence must be a perfect Heaven upon earth!

  	169




January 15, 1847



New Reading, but the Same Meaning


It is quite impossible to make a silk purse out of the Brooklyn Advertiser.	5





January 15, 1847


Pay of Soldiers	10


    If we are to have war, the common soldiers, the working-men of the army, should be well paid. They should have tracts assigned them from the government lands at the West. Let us, brethren of the Press! let us help this project! . . . . . . [Proceedings of Senate
omitted—34 ll.]	15





January 16, 1847


Democratic Doctrine	20


    Despising and condemning the dangerous fanatical insanity of ‘Abolitionism’— as impracticable as it is wild—the Brooklyn Eagle just as much condemns the other extreme from that. It likes so well what the Democracy of Massachusetts, in their late State Address, have promulged on the subject—and sounder doctrine no one can  25 find—that it  transcribes  the  Address’s  sentiments  as  follows:  Speaking  of  a  well developed and healthy Democracy, it says,—‘It may regard slavery anywhere and everywhere,  as  a  great  evil,  a  direct,  practical  denial  of  the  essential  truths  of democracy. It may deplore the misfortune, the misconduct, or the inconsistency of every sister state where slavery exists. It may assert and maintain to the utmost, the  30 right of discussing this subject, and all others that can interest the heart of humanity. It may lament that Congress has no power to purchase the freedom of every slave, and proclaim a universal emancipation. But it will not the less remember, that the power of Congress is limited within narrow and well-defined boundaries,’ &c., &c. . . . . . ‘But while we deprecate,’ continue the eastern Democrats, ‘the perversion of a benevolent  35 association into a fierce political party, we discountenance and despise that morbid and sickly fear of disunion, which sometimes robs our private citizens and public officers of their manhood, so far that they dare not whisper an honest word or attempt
a proper act, concerning slavery, lest the slave-holding states take offence. This base surrender  of  opinion,  this  cowardly  apprehension  of  Southern  discontent,  is  as  40 offensive to the Southern Democrat as it ought to be to all; and let us recollect, as a fact pregnant with meaning, that it was a Virginia Democrat, in the National Congress, who first stigmatized temporizing Northern politicians by the expressive epithet of
‘dough faces.’ . . . . . . There is a medium between these opposite extremes of rashness
and cowardice. That medium is to be found in the bold and honest, but courteous and  45
friendly expression of opinion; in a manly adherence to all constitutional rights, as well
our neighbor ’s as our own; in a calm, but determined vindication of all constitutional
remedies; and finally, in a constant regard for each and all of the great doctrines of

170	  


republicanism, not one of which can safely or wisely be forgotten or disobeyed, and all of which are essential to the Democratic creed and character.’




5
January 18, 1847



Egotism


The Brooklyn Advertiser had several editorials, the other day, highly laudatory
10    of the merits of geese.





January 18, 1847
15



[The ‘‘Advertiser’’ and ‘‘Loco-focos’’]


    The Advertiser boasts that it can see farther into the doings of the ‘‘Brooklyn loco- focos’’ than any body else. If the length of our neighbor ’s vision bears any analogy to
20    the length of its ears, we would confidently trust it to prophesy the events of the next
fifteen centuries.





25    January 20, 1847


’Tis More than Sixty Years Since!


    On this day, sixty-four years—20th Jan. 1783—the government of Great Britain acknowledged the independence of the ‘Colonies’ now composing the United States!
30    At that time, George Clinton was Governor of the State of New York, and Thomas Mifflin (of Pa.) President of Congress. The country was laboring not only under the pecuniary liabilities of long war—as just a war as ever patriots waged on earth—but had the general idleness, lassitude, dissipation, hatred to all the usual avocations of business, and the long train of evils which the military profession engenders among
35    the people, to overcome. But that they have been overcome—by the blessing of God, and a long course of peace—we only need the evidence of the present to prove.





40    January 20, 1847


Lately Published Books


‘The care of the human mind is the most noble branch of medicine.’—GROTIUS.

45		A perfect omnibus of facts, statistics, reasoning, cases, means, experiments, and so on—the Treatment of Insanity—has just been published by the Harpers. They are gleaned by the study and research of John G. Galt, M.D., superintendant of the Virginia

  	171


Lunatic Asylum at Williamsburgh, in that State. They are thrown together, apparently without any attempt at method—as they were caught up or came in the way of the author; and dreary, though most interesting, are the pages which contain them! A prodigious number of authorities are quoted in the course of the work, and the author appears to be an enthusiast in his gloomy inquiry. The work is one which every	5 physician should read, from its general bearing on all matters connected with health.
    Nos. 84 and 85 of Wiley & Putnam’s ‘Choice Reading,’ are Spaniards and their Country, by Richard Ford. Of all the books on Spain—on the habits of the people, their pride, gravity, suavity, superstition, indolence, and a sort of besottedness in their own
old way—this work, from what we have read of it, we judge it to be the best. This is  10 saying a good deal, after reflecting on the talented personages who have in a literary way overhauled Spain—but we pledge our critical sharpness on the assertion’s truth.
    The Adopted Son, a historical novel, translated by W. E. Hoskin from the Dutch of J. Van Lennep, has been issued in two handsome, well printed volumes, by Burgess & Stringer, 222 Broadway N. Y. The first scenes are laid amid the troubles of the United  15
Provinces, at the commencement of the seventeenth century. Some of the pictures of skirmishing—and of the atrocities committed at the instigation of Mendoza—are fearfully vivid. . . . . . B. & S. deserve credit for the neat and tasty style of the ‘getting up’ of this work.
    Schiller ’s Revolt of the Netherlands, involving a narrative of the trial and execution  20 of Counts Egmont and Horn, and of the siege of Antwerp, is published as No. 21 of Harper ’s New Miscellany. This book we welcome! An edition was much wanted: written nearly sixty years ago, the old edition had nearly gone out of print. It is one of
the models of nervous, clear writing.
Dr. Smee’s work on the Potatoe Plant, (Wiley and Putnam’s edition, N. Y.) contains  25
an investigation into the uses and properties of that vegetable, together with the cause
of the late malady, the extension of that disease to other plants, the question of famine
arising therefrom, and the best means of averting that calamity. Of course this is one of
the most interesting agricultural topics that could possibly be treated on at the present
juncture.	30
G.  W.  Light,  Boston,  (3  Cornhill,)  has  sent  us  the  first number  of  the  Young
American’s Magazine of Self-Improvement—an octavo size, well printed, with over 70
pages, for $1.20 cts a year—two copies for $2. We like this number well, and shall make
some extracts from it at an early day.
35



January 21, 1847
The Law of Blood—Shall Russ Be Hung?	40

    A wide and powerful move is on the start, to induce the Governor to commute the sentence of Russ, lately convicted of murder, into imprisonment for life. (During the trial of Russ, the prisoner actually slept all through the most important testimony against him. This proves either that he is insane, or callous beyond ordinary experience.) And  45 the probabilities are not unfavorable to the success of this move. The aversion of a very large and intelligent portion of society to the law of blood grows stronger every day! it
    
172	  


increases with the increase of the Christian spirit, and with the prevalence of true views on the subject of crime and its punishments! it will never cease knocking on the hard flinty heart of the law, till it has penetrated its iron surface, and broken down its conservative cruelty! May good angels speed the progress of the benignant influence!
5	This day, 21st, is the very day French Louis was guillotined 54 years ago in Paris.
At that era of bloodshed—when a nation’s accumulated wrongs and wrath burst over
the tyrants of France in one wild whirlwind whose fury even wild as it was, did not
half  equal  the  horror  of  the  long  train  of  quiet  outrage  and  wretchedness  which
millions had previously endured—at that era of terror, and after it, the influence of
10    public executions so spread through the empire, that private murders increased a
hundred fold, and a traveller relates, as a common occurrence, the sight of boys and
girls guillotining frogs, cats, and so on, for their amusement! The reflective reader will
not fail to see the spirit of the hanging law in that era, in one of its widest and most
fearful developments. It is by a magnifying glass that we best look, not only at distant
15    objects, but at the principles of morals—if we wish to get their minute proportions,
and gauge the bearings of them.




20    January 22, 1847
The Latest Raw Head and Bloody Bones

We remarked the other day, that newspapers must always have something to kick
25    up a fuss about; and the newer that thing is, and the less clearly comprehended by
general readers, the ampler the latitude for newspaper expansion, in all the phases of
what may be styled the alarmative, the hue-and-cryative, and the air-bubble-ative. The
latest raw head and bloody bones—or one of the latest—is the prospective evil of the
‘‘paupers and criminals’’ of certain portions of Europe being sent over to the shores of
30    our republic, at European expense!—Somebody has heard from somebody—who has
heard it from somebody else—that the burgomasters of a little German town have sent
over their paupers and criminals in this way! and the probability is anticipated that
other towns will follow suit! Prodigious probability! Terrible tractoration!
Even our discreet and usually clear-eyed contemporary the Evening Post is carried
35    away by this idle hubbub, and writes cogent leaders on it—whose nervous style and
strength we would far rather see applied to themes of real fact and interest. And our
Whig-Native  representative  in  Congress,  Mr.  Seaman,  has  incontinently  delivered
himself of a ‘‘Be it enacted,’’ &c., whereby the storm, according to him, is to draw itself
off  from  our  devoted  heads—a  ‘‘bill  to  prevent  the  importation  of  paupers  and
40    criminals into the United States.’’ One of the profoundest specimens, is this bill, of
legislative nonsense—the attempt to regulate immigration—that we ever read in our
life! Canute’s flatterers’ idea of the royal ruling of the waves—stemming the motion of
nature by government—is nothing to it! It is utterly ridiculous, impracticable—and,
moreover, unnecessary. This is it: by the first section, the consuls of the United States
45    are required to examine on oath, or otherwise as they may think best, all immigrants
who may take passage for the United States; by the second, if upon such examination,
such person shall not appear to have been either a pauper or a criminal, the consul

  	173


shall give him a certificate thereof—otherwise, not; by the third, duplicates of these certificates shall be sent to the magistrates of the ports to which immigrants may have embarked, so as to anticipate their arrival if possible; by the fourth, all immigrants who shall arive in the United States, after six months from the passage of the act, without such certificate, shall be deemed paupers or criminals, and shall be reshipped for the	5 ports which they left; and no master of a vessel shall land them in the United States, under  a  penalty  of  $250  for  each  offence.  Short  as  this  bill  is,  it  involves  more impossibilities than some of the most plethoric statutes in the world. . . . . . . . [Attack
on bill by New York Evening Mirror omitted—36 ll.]
— We may add, for our part, that we possess not the least faith in the stories of  10
governmental attempts in Europe to export their criminals and paupers to America. In
the first place, and as to the first-mentioned class, the announcement of such a rule
would provoke crime every where where the rule should be observed: for who would
not come to America, at such a cheap rate? And will it be supposed that sick and infirm
denizens of poorhouses—sent thither because they cannot work, walk, or ‘do any  15
thing’—would be started on a long, severe, and exhausting journey, many hundreds of
miles—over sea and over land—and in a way of travel which might make a well man
sick, and which any other could not stand at all? If this supposition will hold, the
consequent result would as surely come—the death of the poor victims so sent; which
would  settle  the  matter—for  in  the  discussion,  as  far  as  we  have  seen  it,  it  is  20
exclusively considered as a question of dollars and cents. . . . . . But suppose it be
answered that these poor immigrants—from the pauper houses, if you please—are
sinewy  and  stout  enough  to  stand  the  rough  passage,  and  arrive  here  safe  and
sound—with big appetites, and brawny frames. Then let them come and welcome! say
we; and the more the better. This republic—with its incalculable and inexhaustible  25
resources, lying for thousands of miles back of us yet, and not possibly to be developed
for ages and ages—wants the wealth of stout poor men who will work, more than any other
kind of wealth! . . . . . And as to the newspaper stories on which these raw head and
bloody bones are based, we think not of them; it is the easiest thing in the world to get
up raw heads and bloody bones—either on paper, or with wood and chalk.	30




January 23, 1847
35
Night Schools for Brooklyn Apprentices and Other Youth—
Shall We Not Establish Them Yet?

    The Brooklyn Eagle takes some blame to itself for not having still more persever- ingly seconded the move made by some of its friends in the Common Council, six  40 or seven weeks ago, to get up Evening Schools in this city for the instruction of apprentices and boys who would otherwise be idling in the streets—or in worse places. But we can have these cheap and wholesome institutions still. It only needs that the Board of Education (to whom it has been left,) give the subject favorable notice—that they report a plan—and the project can soon be started on the flow of successful  45 experiment. . . . . . [Omitted—73 ll.]
We earnestly exhort the members of the Brooklyn Board of Education to give this

174	  


plan a favorable regard—to prepare the necessary documents—and to see that it be realized at the earliest possible day. The man who will make himself active in the field, in this thing, will deserve well both of earth and of Heaven!

5



January 25, 1847


Arrival of the Hibernia


10		Brooklyn and New York were thrown into quite a comfortable little ferment this morning, at 10 o’clock, by the news of the arrival of the Hibernia, at Boston, which came over the eastern telegraph. Her unusually long passage was just beginning to make those who look on the darkest side of things, hint at certain sad possibilities; and all  through  the  previous  day,  Sunday,  the  question  and  topic  about  her  arrival,
15    competed with the subjects of the church sermons, and the holy duties of the time.
So this beautiful morning—the sun shining so gaily, and the air so pleasantly
tolerable, for winter—we strolled over to the Gomorrah on the other side of the water,
to hear what we could hear, as well as to ‘see things.’ How fine that river breeze,
standing to feel it on the forward part of the Montauk! How active and inspiriting the
20    spectacle of so much passage and life, on the river and bay!—How innumerous the
tides of humanity that swept along the streets adjacent to shore! Broadway, too—for
even thither wended our steps—was ‘out’ this morning, in all its splendour and joy,
and glitter, and frivolity, and richness and pride! The rolling carriages—the groups of
elegantly attired women—the showy shops—made up a scene, which is met with only
25    in Broadway!
But to our text—the arrival of the Hibernia.—The preparation of the news was
somewhat delayed by difficulties at the telegraphic station: when it did come ‘in shape’
however, it went off like gun cotton! We present it in another column.

30



January 25, 1847


Books Just Published


35		Professor Potter ’s Principles of Science, (Harpers, pub.) treats of the domestic and mechanic arts, manufactures and agriculture—and contains some sensible reflections on the progress of the arts, and their influence on national welfare. Its author, (Professor of moral philosophy and rhetoric in Union college, Schenectady) is not unknown to the literary and scientific world; and the publishers have brought out this
40    really valuable work in neat form.
Wiley & Putnam’s ‘Library of American books,’ nos. 25 and 26, consist—the first
of Spenser and the Faery Queen, collated by Mrs. C. M. Kirkland—the second of Chaucer,
and selections from his poetical works, by Charles D. Deshler. Each volume has a life of the
poet whose verses follow—lives written, not in the meagre style of ordinary biogra-
45    phy, but in a richer vein; lives which paint, or suggest at least, that inner existence and
vitality which are the life to a true poet! Mrs. Kirkland has performed what we must be
allowed to call a perfect description of Spenser—that son of song.

  	175


‘‘With a soul as strong as a mountain  river, Pouring out praise to the  Almighty giver.’’

    Nor  must  the  due  meed  of  praise  be  foregone,  to  the  liberal  publishers,  for presenting these fair developements of genius in a fair and most graceful garb—the
fine white paper and large spaced type, of their beautiful convenient volumes.	5
A fifth edition of the American Poulterer’s Companion has been put to press by the
Harpers. No work on the subject it treats of, is better known, or considered more
reliable, by those whose business calls for such knowledge as it contains. It is a
practical treatise on the breeding, rearing, fattening and general management of the
various species of domestic poultry—with illustrations, and portraits of fowls ‘taken  10
from life’; by C. N. Bement. Our L. I. farmer readers will not overlook the chance to
gain some profitable hints from this book.
The lives of Christopher Columbus and Americus Vespucius, with engravings; have
been published by the Harpers in one small handy volume.—Every youth—every
American youth—should be furnished with the narrative of these two men. This work  15
seems to be written in plain correct style, and is fitted for school use.
A sweet little gilt-edged volume, the Balance, comes to us from Mussey & Thomas,
Boston publishers. It is written by A. D. Mayo, and professes to be a series of ‘‘moral
arguments for Universalism.’’ The illuminated frontispieces are exceedingly pretty;
and the volume, we presume, cannot but be acceptable to persons of the faith which it  20
expounds and advocates.
Virtue’s edition of the Family Bible, in parts, progresses handsomely in its issue;
some of the plates are superb specimens of art.
The beautiful Pictorial England has reached its 16th no., which carries it nearly
through the reign of Henry 8th.	25
W. H. Graham continues the issue of the Architect, one of the best works of its kind
published in any part of the world. It is really interesting even to the unprofessional
reader.

30



January 27, 1847
Free Evening Schools for Brooklyn Youth—	35
A Word to the Common Council and to the Board of Education

    It will be seen by reference to the report of last night’s Board of Education’s pro- ceedings, that the members of that body approve of the plan of Free Evening Schools,
in Brooklyn, but refer the subject back again to the Common Council.—We hope it will  40 not have the fate of losing its vitality in being thus tossed about. The plan is a good plan—a much needed plan—a cheap plan—a money saving plan. That it is good, fol- lows from the premise that ‘learning’ is good—that our American youth must possess
the platform of education, on which to build the performance of their duties, social, moral, and political. In WASHINGTON’s farewell message, he enjoined on his countrymen   45 to bear in mind, and act out, the truth that our republican youth must be educated; that maxim who will dispute? That it is a much needed plan is irrefragably evident when

176	  


we pass through our Brooklyn streets of an evening, and see so many intelligent looking boys idling at the corners, or around certain classes of shops—gradually becoming tainted, and growing up as the weeds grow. That it is cheap, may be proved from a comparison of the expenses incident to it, with the expenses of other kinds of
5    schools: it only needs the hiring of a few cheap rooms, and the procurement of a few humble-priced books, and apparatuses for education. We think it surely a money-saving plan in the end, in the very nature of things; nothing is more expensive, even as to its public outlays, than ignorance and crime, which these schools would go to preclude.
What say you, then, Messieurs of the Common Council of Brooklyn? What say
10    you, Messieurs of the Board of Education? Will you not keep the ball in motion till it
produces the necessary effect?





15    January 27, 1847


More Radicalism in the Pope


    The Pope has abolished the custom of kissing the cross on his slipper, commonly called ‘‘kissing the Pope’s toe,’’ and instead extends his hand to be kissed.
20




January 28, 1847

25


[Book Notice]

    Wiley and Putnam, the N. Y. publishers, have sent us their edition of Dickens’s Battle of Life; also the 4th part of Dombey and Son, printed in the elegant style which marks their library editions, with large type and white paper, and a very neat getting up.

30



January 29, 1847


The Intemperance of Temperance


35		What our feelings and wishes are on the subject of temperance, may be gathered, (by those who take the trouble,) from the various earnest exhortations in behalf of that virtue which appear every week in our columns—those exhortations of facts stated, which are a thousand times more cogent than any abstract reasoning; also, they may be gathered from the tenor of the sketch published on our first page. Can any one say that
40    the Brooklyn Eagle is remiss in its duty, to use what influence it may have, in helping along this noble moral reform? We trow not. We consider temperance one of the grand regenerators of the age; and that all who, in truth of heart, labor in its promulgation, deserve well of heaven and of man!
But we cannot shut our eyes to as great a principle in politics as temperance itself
45    is among the virtues—the principle of the liberty of traffic—the right of commerce
freely  to  buy  and  sell—the  absurdity  of  picking  out  some  moral  evil,  one  of  a
thousand, and swerving the influence of the laws aside from their proper sphere, into

  	177


an attempt to legislate it out of the way. We cannot see the wisdom of such prohibitions as the following, which we find narrated in the Journal of Commerce of this morning:—
‘‘The Stockholders of the Fall River railroad, nearly 400 present, have voted that no alcoholic liquors should be carried over the railroad.’’ Why don’t the stockholders prohibit other ‘evils’ also from passing over their road? There is the evil of licentious-	5 ness, in many of its phases—they might as well prohibit that.
    Indeed we think not of restrictive physical force, employed by the laws, or by the regulations of public companies, to do the good which should be achieved entirely by the convinced reason of voluntary free agents. It is an unprofitable misapplication of
means—a shirking of fair responsibility. It were just as right to prohibit those eatables,  10 (and there are plenty of them,) which cause disease and premature feebleness, from being sold, or being carried, as to prohibit drinkables. It were just as allowable to pass a
law against the corset-makers and venders of stays for ladies, as against brandy. The former kill their thousands too; and lay the foundation for many a bodily decay and death.	15




January 29, 1847
20
The Sewing-Women of Brooklyn and New York

    To say that poverty is one of the greatest causes of crime, would be saying a proverbial truth, literally almost as old as the hills. Upon this truth, however, much may be predicated, which a superficial observer would at first expect to find the causes  25 of elsewhere. How many poor young women there are in Brooklyn and New York— made so by the miserably low rate of wages paid for women’s work, of all kinds, and
in all its various departments, from that of the most accomplished governess to that of the washerwoman! The papers, it is true, sometimes publish stories of the sums made and saved by women in some of the New England or New Jersey factories—how, by  30 preserving industry and economy, they ‘lay up’ enough in the course of a few years to purchase a lot or two, and have something in the savings’ bank besides. Though these stories, to be candid, appear to us apocryphal, if they are fully true we cannot see that they prove much. In country towns, lots are frequently sold for from twenty to fifty dollars. It would be hard, too, if some girls, out of many hundreds, did not have  35 something like good fortune—if that may be called good fortune which takes away the blood from their cheeks, the lustre from their eyes, and the vigor from their young limbs, making them prematurely old, and giving them a few dollars instead. . . . . . But
it is more particularly with the employment and remuneration of working females in this  city, that we have now to do. There are hundreds here on whom the curse (a  40 blessing, properly regulated,) of Adam has descended—they have indeed to earn their bread by the sweat of their brows. Of late years, the proportion of females among those arraigned before the tribunals of justice for crime, has become alarmingly greater than
it used to be. Writers have suggested various reasons for this. One, of some note, in a monthly periodical, attributes it partly to the masculine doctrines in reference to the  45 political  rights  of  women,  that  have  been  broached  of  late  years.  Short-sighted philosopher! have you forgotten the very primer of your political economy, wherein it

178	  


is truly written that poor pay is one of the most profuse sources of crime? Go on, then, and trace the causes, the agents, the means of that poverty. Pursue the threads of the fearful argument, from their small and ramified beginnings, on through the windings and turnings they take, until they end at last in the black waters of despair and death.
5    ‘‘What?’’ says the reader, ‘‘poor pay? Do you think my getting my shirts made so cheaply, or my buying clothes at a low price, has anything to do with female crime?’’ Even so, worthy gentleman. Think of it for a moment; think how four fifths of the young working-women are situated. On one side is virtue, but accompanied by stern and gaunt attendants—wearying labor, stinted food, mean dress, and the cool regard
10    of the world. On the other side is vice, but smiling and buxom—offering pleasure, an easy life, comfort, and fine apparel. Is not the temptation great? It is easy to be pure, where you can do so and get along well; but where you have to battle with destitution, an ordinary soul will faint in the contest, and yield up its goodness.
All this talk, however, is of little avail, unless it tends some way to remedy the evil.
15    The only such remedy we know of, is to be found in the operation of an awakened
public opinion. If we did not have faith in this, we should not take the trouble to write
and publish such articles as these. The press must speak out, often and boldly. It is
difficult to say, at present, what particular means must be fixed on to obviate the dan-
gers to which we have alluded; but once open the eyes of men to the fact of the intimate
20    connexion between poor pay for women, and crime among women, and the greatest
difficulty is overcome. The remedy will somehow or other follow—for benevolence,
when aroused among the body of the people, tends to the reform of whatever abuse
it is directed against.

25



January 29, 1847


30



‘‘The World Is Governed Too Much’’

    The following reformation, made by Gen. O’Donnell, at Havana, is worth copying in New York: ‘‘The public are prohibited from calling out any actor or actress, or for repetition of any piece, under penalty of 15 days in prison.’’

35



January 29, 1847


40


Local Intelligence
The Poor in Brooklyn

    The numbers of those who apply at the office of the Superintendents of the Poor, for assistance during this inclement season, will average one hundred daily. A greater part of them are women; and the nature of their solicitations is as varied as their appearance. Each new applicant is questioned closely, and the name, place of birth and
45    residence registered. Some of them have been on the ‘‘list’’ for years, and have become so confirmed in their indigence, that the visit to the office seems to be a part of their routine of life, judging from the bold, unhesitating manner in which they approach the

  	179


officer in attendance, almost demanding the article for which they come. There are some too, strange as it may seem, whose object in applying for a portion of the public alms, is gain—whose circumstances are comparatively good, sufficiently so to enable them to decently support themselves: but who, desiring to save money, do not hesitate to resort
to fraud in order to add to their store. Others, who have been reduced from comfort to	5 poverty, fighting with effort and pride against the evil day, living on hope until hope itself  looked  like  a  starving  phantom,  are  at  last  driven  to  make  the  dreaded application. You can easily tell one of this kind. The misery of her heart is fearfully plain upon her pinched and pallid features. Her frame totters and sways—her limbs
are shaken with the palsy of her humiliation—her tongue is frozen and soundless; and  10 it is only when the weak blood concentrates in its last blush for shame, and warmth follows tears, that the poor one (God pity her!) is able to articulate. She has come to beggary at last. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . It seems almost as if the duties of
the Superintendent are of a character requiring more fortitude than those of any other officer in the public service. He has to listen to the stories of all—to discriminate, in the  15 public behalf, between the unfortunate and the vicious. Oftentimes he is compelled to give little where more is actually necessary, in order that all may have a share. As the public almoner, his business is to impartially dispense the public charity; his feelings must be suppressed by prudence, and his duty compels him to merge his benevolence into calculations for making the supplies last the longest. The post is a trying one for  20 the better feelings of humanity. And yet the Superintendents of our Brooklyn poor are men whom we know to be possessed of an ample share of the ‘‘milk of human kindness.’’

25


January 30, 1847
Fort Greene Park—and How We Shall Be Able to Get It
30
    The readers of this journal know well enough how perseveringly we have advocated the consummation of the proposed Washington Park, on that time-honored memento of the revolutionary war, Fort Greene. With the greatest cheerfulness it is, therefore, that we present to them, the following document, which comes sanctioned
by the approval of many of the first and most estimable citizens of Brooklyn: and our  35 money-prudent citizens who have dreaded the cost, will not fail to notice that the purchase of the old Fort, and finishing of the Park, involves only the addition to the taxes, of two and a half cents on the hundred dollars, for a few seasons: [Report omitted—
289 ll.]
40




February 1, 1847


[An Outrage]
45

   ‘‘Cato, a slave, was tried in South Carolina, found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged for a most horrible outrage committed on a white female.’’
    
180	  


    If there be any wisdom in capital punishment in any case, it is in such a case as this. Mere murder is white-robed innocence to deeds of this sort. Indeed mere murder is venial in comparison with deliberate seduction—a crime which society visits too leniently on the vile men, so many of whom make a business of it!
5




February 1, 1847

10


[Poe’s Wife Dead]

    The death of Edgar A. Poe’s wife is mentioned in the N. Y. prints. She died on Saturday of pulmonary consumption. Her funeral will take place at Fordham to- morrow at 2 o’clock P.M.

15



February 1, 1847


Books Just Published


20		The Harpers, among their late budget, give Memoirs of the most eminent American mechanics, Fitch, Franklin, Fulton, Oliver Evans, Eli Whitney, Eckford, among others, and add, in the same work, lives of distinguished European mechanics—together with a collection of anecdotes and descriptions relating to the mechanic arts. Half a hundred engravings, likenesses, &c., illustrate the text; and the whole work must lie peculiarly
25    in the province of good reading for the young workingmen of this republic—to whom its spirit can hardly fail of bringing many good results.
    Burgess & Stringer, 222 Broadway, N. Y. have issued in fair form, the first volume, (which is as far as is yet written,) of Douglas Jerrold’s St. Giles and St. James. Amid the multiplicity of flippant novels—novels written to float temporarily on the surface of
30    popularity—this book deserves a far different and better fate. In style it is graceful, polished, witty, and clear. Its moral is a noble one. The interest of the plot is sustained in a fine dramatic manner. No morbid sentimentality is encouraged by it—no covert licentiousness, or gilded aristocratic vice, lurks under the inference deducible from any of its scenes or characters. . . . . . . The Brooklyn Eagle is not afraid to commend St.
35    Giles and St. James to all readers—young and old. They will derive from it none of the evil of the sickly school of romance writing—but will be the better and truer after a careful dwelling on its pages.
    Rambles about the Country, by Mrs. E. F. Ellet, (Harpers, pub.) involves several graphic descriptions of American natural scenery, and incidents of American life. We
40    welcome every thing that truly treats of our own land—and we therefore welcome this!
A very neat London serial publication, Payne’s illustrated London, is sent us by
C. Muller, 118 Nassau street, N. Y., the wholesale agent for Brooklyn and New York.
The work is designed to give a series of views of the British metropolis and its
environs, with historical and descriptive letter-press—and each part has ten such
45    engraved views, from original drawings. There are five parts already published, at 25
cents each.
Twenty-six years of the life of an actor and manager, by Francis C. Wemyss, (now or
late of the Bowery Theatre, if we are not mistaken,) has been published in two vols. by

  	181


Burgess & Stringer, N. Y. The work professes to contain sketches and anecdotes of nearly all the leading actors and actresses of the present time, and some of actors lately dead.
The Home Magazine, a new monthly, has been sent us by the publisher, D. Mead,
114 Nassau st., N. Y.	5
Wellman’s publications, at 116 Nassau st., N. Y., the Illustrated Botany, the Literary
Emporium. the Youth’s Magazine, &c., continue to be published, and with increased
attractions.

10


February 2, 1847
One of the Results of the New Excise Law
15
    Besides the fact that bar-rooms here remain open now, notwithstanding this city voted ‘no license,’ there are several facts like the following, from the last Hempstead paper, in Queens co. on this island. Do we assume too much when we say, that any law which is perfectly ineffectual (see facts every where,) ought to be obliterated from the statute book? Does not such a law, and the open defiance to it, beget more or less  20 analogical defiance to all law? . . . . . . In transcribing the appended paragraph, it is hardly necessary to express contempt for the brutish propensities which find their favorite gratification in guzzling ‘toddies’ and ‘stiff horns.’ Intemperance is a vice whose horrid results are quite bad enough, without gaining additional impetus from
the  provoked  spirit  which  men  show  when  attempted  to  be  constrained  in  such  25
matters by physical force.
[Quotation about ‘‘a sort of drinking club’’ that has been formed in Hempstead
omitted—35 ll.]

30


February 3, 1847
The Most Emphatic Expression of Opinion
on an Important Subject Ever Given by the Empire State!	35

    Last Wednesday, (Jan. 27) the senate of this state passed what are called the ‘‘anti- slavery  resolutions,’’  by  the  powerful  vote  of  twenty-three  to  six.  We  gave  those resolutions, (presented by Col. Young, democrat,) in our paper of Friday; and have now to add that the same resolutions passed the assembly on Monday, by ninety-six  40 votes out of a hundred and five! democrat and whig uniting in the the ‘lower house,’ (as they did in the upper,) to approve and endorse them!
    We believe the Brooklyn Eagle was the very first democratic paper which alluded to this subject in a decisive manner—expressing the conviction that it is the duty of its party to take an unalterable stand against the allowance of slavery in any new territory,  45 under  any circumstances, or in any way. Every democratic journal, with the truest pleasure we have observed, has been actuated by the same determination; for, since then, each without exception, (as far as we have seen) has expressed its approval of that rule.
    
182	  


Some difference exists, as to the propriety of discussing the point now—but as to the principle—the soul of the matter—the northern democracy show one solid unbroken phalanx.

5



February 3, 1847


Public Opinion


10		Mr. Giles gave one of his best essays last night, at the institute, on ‘public opinion.’ He did not think so highly of the soundness or purity or disinterestedness of that great power, as many do, or rather profess to do. He paid a high compliment to the press— higher, perhaps, than a great portion of it deserves.

15



February 4, 1847



Free Seminaries of Brooklyn

20	The Concord St. School—The York St. School—
The Middagh St. School

    Among the matters of unfailing interest to us, which we often think of, investigate, and allude to, are the public schools—the seminaries where the future masses of our
25    republic are being formed! There, in them, are the collected voters, the life-blood of the land. There are our American young. . . . . . The young! what a comprehensive phrase! A thousand busy restless little brains—a thousand characters to fashion—a thousand immortal souls! There, engaged in their puerile ambitions, their childish aims, appear they—with their clear eyes, their tangled hair, their unbuttoned jackets, and their
30    engaging ingenuousness! Look now on these awkward ones—with their loutish bend, their unpolished way, and their ignorance. You think there is no poetry in them! Alas! it is not the fault of nature, the bountiful one: she has filled the house with every thing noble and beautiful—with golden statues, and paintings, and well-tuned instruments of music. But the windows have not been thrown open, and all lies hushed and dark. It
35    is a hard thing—the practice of many teachers, parents, and those who have to do with children—that they are pleasant only to the pretty ones—to them that have had the good luck to get only the agreeable traits drawn out.
    There are in Brooklyn thirteen public school establishments—each with its vari- ous departments, male and female, primary, and so on. Some public school buildings
40    have in the neighborhood of a thousand pupils, including all the departments. In the primaries, in the basements, may be observed by the visitor ‘any quantity’ of little red- cheeked humanity—a sight to make the hardest man’s heart grow soft and gentle within him. The greatest fault with these departments (and a great fault with all school rooms,) is insufficient ventilation. Every school room should possess a very high
45    ceiling, and valves or some other contrivance for purifying the air. On the second floors, may be found the schools for girls. These will generally strike one immediately for their superior neatness, and the clean appearance of every thing, from the very floors, up.—The boy’s schools occupy the third and last floors.

  	183


    At a late visit paid by us to the Concord st. public school, (no. 1,) under the principal charge of Mr. Lyman E. White, it was observable that the boys had a fair knowledge of the rudiments of grammar, arithmetic, and so on. They ‘ciphered out’ several  impromptu  problems  in  the  latter  branch,  with  commendable  ease  and correctness.  There  are  ampler  accommodations  needed  at  no.  1,  if  the  school  is	5 generally as full as on the day of our visit. Every large school should have three recitation  rooms,  at  least. . . . .  At  the  York  st.  school,  (no.  7,)  Mr.  Henry  Dean, principal, we happened in just as the whole school were drawn up in the same room
to take the musical lesson from Mr. Webster, the teacher of singing. (In parenthesis,
we must observe that we fell quite in love with a lot of girl-children;—they looked  10
as neat as morning glories, and sung like ‘brown thrashers.’) A large class of boys, in
the recitation room, evinced a high degree of natural capacity, and answered smartly
sundry questions in geography and ‘figures.’ In the primary department below, saw
we a prodigious array of small fry! whereat the wonder started up, where so many
babies came from, and how fat they all were, and how much better it would be if the  15
ceiling were twice as high, with air-valves—and the pleasure that must reside in the
nursery of the potent brother of the sun and moon, the great shah of Persia, who has
two hundred wives, and about as many ‘little immortals’ as we saw in that basement
room!  . . . . . .  In  the  Middagh  st.  school  (no.  8,)  under  the  care  of  Mr.  J.  Reeve,
principal, all the latest building improvements have been put. The necessities for  20
ventilation  are  capital—and  we  recommend  the  whole  arrangement  as  a  model
(with one or two minor improvements) for all newly erected school houses. In the
primary department, it seemed to us that a very high degree of excellence prevailed
in the management of the children, the plans on which they were taught, and the
care exercised over them. The boys school contains many intelligent lads, and the  25
principal appears to labor hard in his duties. They, like the pupils at the other places
mentioned, responded with readiness to extempore questions asked them in test of
their studies.
As a general thing, the faults of our public school system are—crowding too many
students together, insufficiency of books, and their cost being taxed directly on the  30
pupil—and  the  flogging system,  which  in  a  portion  of  the  schools  still  holds  its
wretched sway. With pride we unite in the numerous commendations of the grand free
school  system  of  this  state—with  its  twelve  thousand  seminaries,  and  its  twenty
thousand teachers, to whom each child, rich or poor, can come without money and
without price! But we are none the less aware that the prodigious sum—hundreds of  35
thousands of dollars—annually expended on these schools, might be expended to
more profit. We have by no means ascended to the height of the great argument of
education. The monotonous old still resists the fresh philosophical new. Form and
precedent often are more thought of than reality. What are mere ‘order ’ or ‘learning
lessons,’  or  all  the  routine  of  the  simple  outside  of  school  keeping?—Absolutely  40
nothing, in themselves; and only valuable, as far as they help the higher objects of
educating the child. To teach the child book grammar is nothing; to teach him by
example, by practice, by thoroughly clarifying the principles of correct syntax, how to
talk and write harmoniously, is every thing. To put him through the arithmetic is not
much: to make him able to compare, calculate, and quickly seize the bearings of a  45
practical figure-question such as occurs in business every hour, is a good deal. Mere
atlas geography is a sham too, unless the learner have the position of places in his
mind, and know the direction, distances, bearings, etc. of the countries, seas, cities,

184	  


rivers and mountains, whose names, (as our miserable school-geographies give them,) he runs over so glibly. We care very little indeed for—what is the pride of many teachers’ hearts—the military discipline of their schools, and the slavish obedience of their pupils to the imperial nod or waved hand of the master. As to the flogging plan, it
5    is the most wretched item yet left of the ignorance and inefficiency of school keeping. It has surrounded the office, (properly one of the noblest on earth,) with a character of contemptibleness and petty malignance, that will stick to it as long as whipping sticks among teachers’ habits. What nobleness can reside in a man who catches boys by the collar and cuffs their ears? What elevation or dignity of character can even a child’s
10    elastic thoughts connect with one who cuts him over the back with a ratan, or makes him hold out his hand to receive the whack of a ferule? For teachers’ own sakes—for the true height and majesty of their office, hardly second to the priesthood—they should one and all unite in precluding this petty and foolish punishment—this degrader and bringer-down of their highstanding. As things are, the word school-
15    teacher is identified with a dozen unpleasant and ridiculous associations—a sour face, a whip, hard knuckles snapped on tender heads, no gentle fatherly kindness, no inciting of young ambition in its noble phases, none of the beautifiers of authority, but all that is small, ludicrous, and in after life productive of indignation. We have reason to think that the flogging system still prevails in several of our Brooklyn schools to
20    quite a wretched extent. In the school in Baltic st. under a former management, forty children in the boys’ department were thrashed in the course of one morning! and in the female department a little girl was so cut and marked with the ratan over back, neck and shoulders, for some trifling offence, that the livid marks remained there for several days! This is a pretty fact for the character of our public seminaries! Justice
25    to the mass of the teachers, however, demands that they should not be confounded with these ultra and repulsive cases. In general, doubtless, they whip with moderation—if that word may be applied to such a punishment at all. Nor do we mean to impugn their motives altogether. They think they are doing right. So did the Spanish  torturers  in  Peru—inquisators  in  Spain—and  the  learned  doctors  who
30    denounced Jenner.





February 4, 1847
35


‘Now Then Stupid!’


    The foolish little Advertiser suggests that the increased trade, occupation and prosperity of our business men and mechanics, are the result of our Mexican war. O, thou ass!
40




February 4, 1847

45


[Get Married]

    Young man reader! if you have good health, are over twenty one years old, and nothing to ‘incumber ’ you, go and get married.
    
  	185




February 5, 1847


A Plea for the Stricken Ones!


Look at that advertisement in an adjoining column, of Harnden & Co., 6 Wall st.,
N. Y., who engage to remit any sum—small or great—to Ireland, free of discount for	5
their trouble. Reader! if you have any thing that you can spare at all, in the name of Him
who pledged His sacred word to credit to HIMSELF all aid given to ‘suffering sad
humanity,’ we entreat such aid for the distressed ones in that beautiful God-stricken
island! Ah, how little we know here of the gloomy horrors there! how hard, amid our
plenty, luxury, happiness and health, to realize the want, squalor, misery and disease  10
that accumulate now on so many thousands in Ireland!
Pleas  for  charitable  gifts  are  so  common  in  newspapers,  that  when  a  vivid
occasion really arises, it is apt to be passed over by the reader, as one of a monotonous
ever-recurring class. So let not this occasion be passed over! If there ever were any time
when a public motion, spreading from north to south, in behalf of aid to a distressed  15
community, were needed, this is the time. Give now. Wait not.—Pestilence and ashy-
faced  starvation  have  their  iron  grip  on  hundreds  and  thousands  of  our  fellow
creatures—and we can at least balk some of the sway of those gloomy powers, if we
will. This is no sickly charity, either: it is famine to men and women present, face to
face! It is thin-ribbed poverty, prostrate on its heap of straw, foodless, garmentless,  20
chilled, almost praying for death—and its bitter lot made doubly bitter by the sight of
similar misery in so many directions around it!
Christians!  need  we  to  entreat  you?  Forego  some  of  the  conventionalisms  of
devotion, and worship Christ in truth by ‘‘ministering unto Him,’’ through those
distressed stricken beings!	25





February 5, 1847


More Egotism	30


Yesterday’s Advertiser has half a column treating on pigs.





February 5, 1847

35

More Terrible Tractoration!


The Advertiser—which is always poking its stupid nose in by-ways—has grubbed
up the astounding and horrific fact that the workmen at the navy yard in this city are  40
not paid in ‘‘shin-plaster ’’ paper money (at a loss of from one to six cents on every
dollar,) but are paid in the real rino, British gold sovereigns, ‘‘which the government
rates at $4 84 1⁄2, but which the men get only $4 83 for ’’!!—that is, (even allowing the
Adv. to be able to tell the truth, which is allowing a great deal,) the horribly outraged
workmen lose the frightful amount of about three-fifths of a cent on a dollar! This is  45
surely the greatest exposure of governmental horrors, yet! When one comes to reflect
too, that if the workmen keep these golden things a year or two, (for time of sickness,

186	  


or need,) said golden things will be so much more likely to depreciate so much lower than the immortal rag money, the startling depravity of the navy yard treasurer is placed in a most vivid light!

5



February 5, 1847


[Devils’ Feast]


10		The Brooklyn Eagle, devils inclusive, (the name whereof is legion,) had high times yesterday, feasting on plum and pound cake, sent to B. E. with a certain marriage notice. The devils—in view of said cake—say it would be a blessed thing if every body got married every day. Such a sentiment is worthy of the wickedest sort of devils!
15




February 6, 1847

20



The Next Blessing to God’s Blessings—
Shall It Be Jeopardised?


    If there is a political blessing on earth, that deserves to stand in the near neighbor- hood of the great common blessings vouchsafed us by God—life, light, freedom, and
25    the  beautiful  and  useful  ordinations  of  nature—that  blessing  is  involved  in  the UNION of these United States together into an integral republic, ‘‘many in one.’’— Quite all the happiness that we enjoy, which springs from the political institutions of our country—much of our ability to confer happiness on the thousands from abroad that annually claim homes here—all the respect paid our name in foreign climes, the
30    regard to our citizens’ rights, and the opening of avenues to commercial profit— depend likewise on the same union. Further than this: the perpetuity of the sacred fire of freedom, which now burns upon a thousand hidden, but carefully tended, altars in the old world, waits the fate of our American union. O, sad would be the hour when that union should be dissolved! Then might the good genius of humanity weep tears of
35    blood, bitterer than any ever before shed for the downfall of her high hopes! Then might tyrants cry the ‘Aha!’ of their scorn and selfishness, with tenfold hatred to the swelling impulse for man’s rights! Then were man’s rights indeed to be despaired of— for many a long age, at least! This union dissolved? Why the very words are murky with their own most monstrous portent!
40		And yet these words are flippantly turned over and over in the mouths of men, at the present time—not as we turn them from our pen, with feelings so vivid in horror toward their import that the very fingers almost revolt from tracing them—but as words involving a very possible contingency, which may come to pass, (that curse of heaven!) if certain angry demands are not allowed, or certain bad-tempered avowals
45    are not humored. The words are on the tongues of American legislators in congress assembled—are resounded back again from that section which is called ‘the cradle of liberty’—are taken up and borne about, and may thus become so ‘seen too oft,’ and
‘familiar to the face,’ that men’s minds will not turn away from them with loathing, as at first. We hear these angry recriminations and threats with alarm which we will not

  	187


disguise—in connection with a certain momentous question which is now before congress, and the finale of which, when it comes, is supposed capable of shaking the foundation of our republic through and through, as the tempest shakes a noble ship at sea. Upon this question our views go with the great majority, with nineteen twentieths,
of the democracy of the west and of the north—which we doubt not are immutable in	5
their determination on the point. But why need the discussion of the subject be made
the stalking-horse of those unkind allusions by northern members of congress toward
the south, which we see so frequently uttered—tallied by similar flings in certain of the
newspapers. There is no need of discussing the proposition to which we allude, with any more
angry tone, with any more retorts, or any more harsh allusions, than two men might use in  10
discussing a point of mathematics. All such harshness and retorts are wretched. The
points of the case are susceptible of as plain demonstration, as that ten and ten are
twenty. No warmth is called for in debating the matter; no insinuations are legitimate;
no covert inferences are needed. The truth lies in plain light, and can be plainly stated,
without, it seems to us, reasonably hurting the feelings of any man, however tender his  15
‘sectional jealousious.’ It is one of the curses of the politics of this country, that the great
questions which agitate its weal or woe, cannot be treated with something like the
calmness wherewith men treat matters relating to their personal bargains, trades and
offers in business. When a farmer talks with his neighbor the point if ashes be or be not
best after a crop of oats, on his fields, he does not get in a passion and make angry  20
threats. Will our legislators get in a passion and make threats when these great matters
in which an empire is interested, and an ample posterity, too, are brought before them
for adjudication?
But all this matter is most important to us, (in its connection with the drift of the
present article,) as it relates to the way in which it comes to bear on the dissolution of  25
the union. At the very threshold of the debate, the idea of such a contingency, or the
any way recognized possibility of it, should be scouted by all legislators—as it surely is
by the body of the people! No man should dare to wag a syllable which acknowledges
that result as one to be soberly thought of. In the past history of the world, the angry
excitements of men, working in their fury, have done many wicked things—whose evil  30
consequences have descended to ages afterward. But not in the whole train, long,
black, and disastrous as it is, lies a deed which may so damn its author to the hatred of
his race—place him so high in the accursed list of traitors to their country, cowards,
assasins of peace, malignant betrayers of their brethren—as the deed of him who
should provoke, or make the first move in, the dissolution of the American union. Well  35
might  the  voice  of  humanity  rise—as  it  would—in  one  great  howl  of  scorn,
indignation, and resentment, at such a severer of bands which God has evidently
smiled upon. Well might after ages invent new epithets of ignominy and hatred for
him and his most wicked conduct.
40




February 6, 1847


Course of Brooklyn Whiggery

toward the Relief for Ireland Movement	45

    The mean little Advertiser had, not long since, a great deal to say, and a great deal to manufacture, about the course of the Brooklyn Eagle on the subject of the movement for relief to Ireland—which our readers know very well we have done what we could
    
188	  


for from the beginning—have cheerfully aided by appeal, by advertisement, and by the publication of the real state of affairs in that unhappy country. But now, now when the fullest of all help is needed, now when thousands are starving there, and every little will further the sustenance of human life, the whig organ excludes the very advertisement
5    of the Brooklyn meeting, to give this help, from its columns, and has not one single allusion to it either the day preceding the meeting, (yesterday) or the previous day. This is one of the most deliberate insults to unfortunate Ireland, (if it be allowed that the A. can insult any thing,) possible for a petty vulgarian to offer a good cause and a distressed people. It is evidently a premeditated insult; and no explainings away, (if the Adv. endeavor, as it
10    may, to prepare such fictitious explanation) can rub out its shameless meanness. . . . . . 
We  sometimes  think  it  hardly  worth  while  to  box  the  ears  of  our  foolish  little
contemporary; and then again its impertinence is so continued that some chastisement
seems advisable. The case under discussion comes within the latter category. So we
hereby stick the Adv. through with our new Bagley’s gold pen, (that being safe from
15    any corrosion by vile substances) and place it before the public in its deserved attitude
of a stupid, wicked little print, with impudence to the sign plus, and manliness far
below the sign minus—that is to say, somewhat less than nothing at all.




20
February 6, 1847



[Book Notice]


M. Salverte’s celebrated Philosophy of Magic, (an excellent English translation of it,)
25    has been republished in this country by the Harpers, in two vols., forming nos. 22 and
23 of their new miscellany. This book is the result of a philosophical investigation of
prodigies  and  apparent  miracles.  Salverte  is  well  known  abroad  as  a  deep  and
enthusiastic student of nature—a man of subtle mind, searching to find out truths, and
not to bolster up any predelictions or favorite dogmas conceived by chance and rooted
30    by obstinacy. Nor are there many more interesting books than this same work on the
occult sciences. . . . . . Our present notice is but introductory to some extended extracts
which cannot but be new and entertaining to the readers of our Eagle.



35

February 8, 1847
The Foreign Press on the American President

40		With all the world-fame of such a paper as the London Times, there is a good deal of fol-de-rol about it. The Brooklyn Eagle has been reading with huge amusement, L. T. of the last day of the last year—the leader whereof is an attempt to be very sarcastic on our good President Polk. It is one of the completest specimens, that leader, of the ex cathedra style of sweeping denunciation that ever was seen. Not a single fact narrated
45    in Mr. Polk’s message (which is fortunately printed in the same issue,) is controverted— not a statistical figure met by other figure—not a historical allusion rebutted.—But the whole is dashed at by one stroke of the pen—by the charge of wholesale falsehood—

  	189


by attempts at the tallest sort of the assumption of scorn and hauteur. . . . . . We have heard a great deal in this country (and B. E. has itself given in somewhat to that belief,) of the superiority of the tone of the London and Paris press over our cheaper and more diffused press—lower in tone, because thus cheaper and wider diffused, (as shoes ‘for
the million,’ cannot rival the ten dollar boots of the ‘upper ten,’ though they may be more	5 substantial.) But if the style of this attack on the American President is any thing in the neighborhood of a taste of the usual quality of the foreign press, we give up our belief
for ever! Not one of the N. Y. Herald’s flippant editorials—not one of the Express’s common- place ones—not one of the Courier’s blustering ones—can much go beyond this unlogical stringing together of meaningless phrases, which prove nothing with all their loudness!  10
    Meantime, while the foreign press—a good portion of it, at least—is pouring out ridicule of this republic and her chosen ones—Yankeedoodledom is going ahead with the resistless energy of a sixty-five-hundred-thousand-horse-power steam engine! It is carrying every thing before it south and west, and may one day put the Canadas and
Russian America in its fob pocket! Whether it does these things in a conventionally  15
‘genteel’ style or not, isn’t the thing: but that it will tenderly regard human life,
property and rights, whatever step it take, there is no doubt. At all events, Yankee-
doodledom will never never be guilty of furnishing duplicates to the Chinese war, the
‘operations of the British in India,’ or the ‘extinguishment of Poland.’ Let the old world
wag on under its cumbrous load of form and conservatism; we are of a newer, fresher  20
race and land. And all we have to say is, to point to fifty years hence and say, Let those
laugh who win.



25

February 8, 1847
Miserable State of the Stage—Why Can’t We Have
Something Worth the Name of American Drama?
30
    Of all ‘low’ places where vulgarity (not only on the stage, but in front of it) is in the ascendant, and bad-taste carries the day with hardly a pleasant point to mitigate its coarseness,  the  New  York  theatres—except  the  Park—may  be  put  down  (as  an Emeralder might say,) at the top of the heap! We don’t like to make these sweeping assertions in general—but the habit of such places as the Bowery, the Chatham, and  35 the Olympic theatres, is really beyond all toleration; and if the N. Y. prints who give dramatic notices, were not the slaves of the paid puff system, they surely would sooner
or later be ‘down’ on those miserable burlesques of the histrionic art. Yet not one single independent dramatic critic seems to be among many talented writers for the N. Y. press. Or rather, we should say, not one single upright critic is permitted to utter  40 candidly his opinions of the theatricals of the metropolis; for we would not insult the good taste of the intelligent literary men connected with the press over the river, so much as to suppose that their eyes and ears do not make the same complaint to them
as ours make to us in the matter alluded to.
We  have  excepted  the  Park  theatre  in  the  charge  of  vulgarity,  because  the  45
audiences there are always intelligent, and there is a dash of superiority thrown over
the performances. But commendation can go not much further. Indeed it is not a little

190	  


strange that in a great place like New York, acknowledged as the leading city of the western hemisphere, there should be no absolutely good theatre. The Park, once in a great while, gives a fine play, performed by meritorious actors and actresses. The Park is still very far, however, from being what we might reasonably expect in the principal
5    dramatic establishment of the metropolis. It is but a third-rate imitation of the best London theatres. It gives us the cast off dramas, and the unengaged players of Great Britain; and of these dramas and players, like garments which come second hand from gentleman to valet, every thing fits awkwardly. Though now and then there is ground for satisfaction, the average is such as men of refinement cannot applaud at all. A play
10    arranged to suit an English audience, and to jibe with English localities, feelings, and domestic customs, can rarely be represented in America, without considerable alteration. This destroys its uniformity, and generally deprives it of all life and spirit. One of the curses of the Park, and indeed of nearly all theatres now, is the star system. Some actor or actress flits about the country, playing a week here and a week there,
15    bringing as his or her greatest recommendation, that of novelty—and very often indeed having no other.—In all the intervals between the appearance of these much trumpetted people, the theatre is quite deserted, though the plays and playing are often far better than during some star engagement. We have seen a fine old English drama, with Miss Cushman and her sister—Mrs. Vernon, Placide, Fisher, and several
20    others whose betters in their departments could hardly be found—we have seen such a beautiful piece, well put upon the stage, and played to a forlorn looking audience, thinly  scattered  here  and  there  through  pit  and  box—while  the  very  next  week, crowds would crush each other to get a sight of some flippant well-puffed star, of no real merit, and playing a character written (for the play consists of nothing but one, in
25  such cases) by nobody knows whom—probably an ephemeral manufacturer of literature, with as little talent as his employer.
    If some bold man would take the theatre in hand in this country, and resolutely set his face against the starring system, as a system,—some American it must be, and not moulded in the opinions and long established ways of the English stage,—if he should
30    take high ground, revolutionize the drama, and discard much that is not fitted to present tastes and to modern ideas,—engage and encourage American talent, (a term made somewhat nauseous by the use it has served for charletans, but still a good term,) look above merely the gratification of the vulgar and of those who love glitter- ing scenery—give us American plays too, matter fitted to American opinions and
35    institutions—our belief is he would do the republic service, and himself too, in the long round.





40    February 8, 1847


[The ‘‘Advertiser’’]


The ridiculous little Advertiser charges us with the high and mighty crime of not
despising the British tariff or British gold. Truly we cotton to both; the one evidences
45    judgment—and we prefer the other to the notes of any paper bank in the world. But
we have an aversion to British ignorance, impertinence, and cockneyism; ergo we
don’t like the idiotic little Advertiser.

  	191




February 8, 1847


[A Safe Moral Novel Writer]


    Daniel  Denniston  and  the  Cumberland  Statesman,  by  Mrs.  Hofland,  have  been published in one twenty-five cent volume, by the Harpers, N. Y. Among the novel-	5 writers, few are safer than Mrs. H. Her tone of morals is always good.





February 10, 1847

10

Independent American Literature—
Our Answer to Yankee Doodle—
The Hamilton Lit. Society of Brooklyn
15

    Several of the papers—among the rest Yankee Doodle—took us to task, not long since, for some strictures on an incident which occurred at the anniversary dinner of the Hamilton association, in this city. One of the guests at that dinner proposed a toast involving  an  assertion  of  American  literary  independence—which  was  partially
hissed, not by any member of the Hamilton society, however, but by some other guest  20 or guests. (In our former brief notice, certain words were used which we are now convinced did injustice to this really talented band of young men; they are, many of them, gentlemen of much literary taste, and true perception.) Yankee Doodle thinks not only that the toast was very properly hissed, but that instead of mere hissing, the hearers should have hooted its author from the room. This horrible toast, was in the  25 following words: ‘‘The United States of America—an independent country, and not a mere suburb of London.’’ Truly a frightful and audacious sentiment! a most treason- able, rebellious toast! Are we not a ‘‘mere suburb of London’’? We trow yes, as long as such sentiments as that of the hapless toast are condemned by a periodical whose very foundation  starts  in  the  idea  of  nationality—as  long  as  we  copy  with  a  servile  30 imitation, the very cast off literary fashions of London—as long as we wait for English critics to stamp our books and our authors, before we presume to say they are very good or very bad—as long as the floods of British manufactured books are poured over the land, and give their color to all the departments of taste and opinion—as long
as an American society, meeting at the social board, starts with wonder to hear any of  35 its national names, or any national sentiment, mentioned in the same hour with foreign authors or foreign greatness. Yes, yes! the suggester of that toast did deserve to be
‘‘hooted  out  of  the  room,’’  for  promulging  such  a  broad,  impudent,  unblushing falsehood—a sentiment whose untruth was made plain at the very moment of its utterance!  The  ‘‘United  States  an  independent  country’’?  Why,  we  are  politically  40 independent no doubt; but the U.S. are as much bound in mental bondage as ever—as much as Gulliver was bound by the Lilliputians. Here is this Yankee Doodle, now—a paper whose advent we praised, and to whom we have given our humble good word, because  we  thought  it  was  going  to  espouse  the  side  of  American  literary
‘‘independence’’—even it derides the idea that America is not a ‘‘mere suburb of  45
London’’! Rare Yankee Doodle!
Let  us  not  be  mistaken  by  the  reader.  Not  of  the  petty  bigotted  misnamed

192	  


nationality is ours, which sees nothing to applaud, except it be of native birth. The world-wide stretch of Shakespere’s genius—the true divinity of Spenser—all the varied graces and grandeurs and beauties of Milton, Bunyan, DeFoe,—of the elder dramatists and the great historians of England—are treasures to us Americans more
5    precious than the treasures of kings; and we thank old England for them, with thanks next to what we render for that sturdy spirit of progress and independence, which is the greatest treasure a people can possess. Ah, those wonderful men! what god-like minds! what different beauties—so massive, so delicate, so richly florid, so chastely simple,  so  touching  home  to  the  scenes  of  life,  so  educive  of  otherwise  hidden
10    passions, so tender and so mighty!—Talk of the kings of kingdoms! they are the true kings of earth—the kings of the immeasurable realm of human hearts! . . . . . . But it is because we enter into the realization of the highest phases of their developement, that we are not content to live only on the strength of the aliment they have furnished. How the world has ‘spread itself’ since their day! And have we in this country nothing to
15    add to the store of their manifold genius? And will we fail to remember, too, that the genius of the old world has shaped itself to a different state of things from what exists in the new? Are we not afraid that the thousand streams of literature which irrigate the western continent will spread forever the qualities of the source whence they spring? To  these  questions  freely  and  clearly  we  answer  no.—With  the  most  trustful
20   confidence—for an ardent though humble believer—we have every faith in the eventual justice and perceptions of the American people. Removed on the one hand from the servile copyists who believe that under the portals of the past, and to the moping phantoms there, we must look for masters and for examples, and to pay our highest worship—and, on the other hand, from the officious thrusters forward of the
25    claims, in every ridiculous connection, of writing that is merely American because it is not written abroad—there is a true public opinion forming here which will ere long do equal and exact justice to all, in this matter.



30

February 10, 1847
Why Don’t Their Charity Begin at Home?

35		The Chinese, in their grotesque but vivid way, have a proverb alluding to certain characters whom they compare to lamps hung on high poles, the light of which is seen at a great distance, but cannot be noticed at all for some space around the foot of the pole. The simile, it seems to the Brooklyn Eagle, can with prodigious propriety be launched at the persons engaged in the following bit of tom-foolery—the paragraph
40    describing which we copy from the N. Y. Tribune:

    ‘‘GRAND  REMONSTRANCE   AGAINST  SLAVERY.—It is proposed in the London People’s Journal to get up a kind but faithful remonstrance against American slavery, to be signed by 3,000,000 of the people of Great Britain—a number equal to that of our  slaves.’’

45		With all the greatness, wealth, and activity of the British empire, there is hardly one nation on earth where the labor of the philanthropist, of the cutter down of unfair laws and unjust rules and distinctions, of the lightener of human misery, are more called for! Thousands and millions of slaves exist in the confines of that kingdom, to

  	193


whose lot the condition of the South Carolinian negro is paradise. ‘‘Slaves cannot breathe in England,’’ says her vaunting poet. Indeed the phrase is true, though in another sense from what its author meant. They are suffocated with their own penury and degradation. . . . . . . Nor this alone: in the Asiatic possession of Great Britain
exists slavery of the worst kind—exists ’neath the umbrage of the authority of the	5 crown. Slaves count not by thousands but by millions;—and why do these British philanthropists not exert a few of their spare sympathies for the Asiatic slave, too? When they obliterate the foul bondage of their fellow white men at home, and of their Asiatic provinces, then it is quite time enough to go abroad.
There is reason in all things: that the taking by a rich man of a poor boy from the  10
streets, and furnishing him with education and clothing, evidences a noble soul, would
be the first judgment of the world—until the world knew that the rich citizen had many
children of his own, whose weal he not only neglected, but treated them with contumely,
and brought them up in ignorance, vice and want.
15




February 10, 1847


A Daniel Come to Judgment!
20

    The Pittsburgh American is very savage against all immorality, and thinks that intemperance has grown to such a head, that it requires the most summary as well as the boldest methods to put it down, and advocates [after the war has terminated, however, because intemperance furnishes funds to carry on the war] the enactment of
a law prohibiting the importation of wine, spirits, malt liquor and cider, and attach to  25
its production, brewing, or distillation, a penalty so severe, as to sweep it off the face of
the land. But this highly moral editor—says the E. Mirror—not only fights against the
evil of intemperance, but positively discovers, in a game of marbles, the germ of future
evil, and ‘takes up arms against’ sports of all kinds; which should be abolished as
unnecessary, unprofitable and demoralizing. Hear this great reformer of the age—this  30
Dr. Jeddler of American!—if he were a school-master, we should be sorry to allow a
boy of ours to suffer from his system of education:—‘‘Billiards, nine pins, backgam-
mon, cricket, &c., are but the grown boys’ play of marbles, shiney stick and prisoner ’s
baste. We get a taste for these sports in our youth, which increase and enlarge with our
age. Reformation might be profitably begun therefore at school, from which every  35
thing like sport should be banished as foreign to the purposes of education. This might
be reached by punishing persons for furnishing boys with balls, or doing away with all
vacations,  so  generally  filled  up  by  boys  with  play  and  wild  sport’’!!! 

40


February 10, 1847
What Sort of Books Can Be Admitted in School Libraries
45
    The number of volumes in the school district libraries in this state is 1,203,139. The subject of ‘‘religious books’’ has drawn from the department these rules: No books written professedly to uphold or attack any sect or creed in our country, claiming to be
    
194	  


a religious one, shall be admitted. Works abounding in direct attacks on religious sects, though written for other purposes, are excluded. But standard works incidentally betraying the religious bias or opinions of the author, not to be excluded.

5



February 10, 1847


10


Local Intelligence
Phonography

    We have said considerable about this ‘‘railroad system of writing’’ within a few months past—enough, we think, to give our readers a pretty clear idea of the many advantages to be derived from a thorough practical acquaintance with it. It has been introduced into our office of late, and we can now boast of having compositors who are
15    able to ‘‘set up’’ from phonographic copy with as much facility as from common writing. We hope to have men in our office, in the course of twelve months, who will be able to report verbatim, in phonography, and afterwards set up the speech from their phonographic notes, and thus save the time and labor of transcribing—which is ‘‘a consummation devoutly to be wished.’’. . . . . . . . . . . Mr. Dyer, ‘‘the rapid writer,’’ and
20    one of the best teachers of phonography in the union, is engaged at this time in giving a course of lessons to a large class, composed for the most part of teachers, in this city. The class is making rapid progress, and judging from Mr. D.’s reputation as a teacher, we doubt not that we will have in Brooklyn a goodly number of adepts in the art, at the conclusion  of  his  engagement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
25    This paragraph was written in, and ‘‘set up’’ from, phonographic characters, and the space occupied by it was seven lines of ordinary ruled letter-paper.





30    February 11,  1847


Abroad


    Though  not  of  great  political  interest,  the  news  from  Europe  which  arrived yesterday, will probably fix the public attention more fully than any thing short of
35    great revolutions, or wars. It seems to us that the signs bode the heaving up in Europe of the downtrodden people—and their efforts at throwing off those oppressive burdens of government, that, after all, are so closely connected with their evils— burdens which, from far beginnings, cause those evils at last. For though we are not of the school which believes that governments can confer happiness, the signs are plain
40    that they have sovereign potency in the prevalence of misery.
In  Ireland—poor,  distressed,  starving  Ireland—a  country  rich  by  nature,  but
devastated by human means—the fainting people offer a terrible lesson of the way in
which  a  shameless  system  can  destroy  the  bountiful  capacities  of  a  fertile  land
occupied by an industrious, shrewd, honest hearted race. In France, the smothered
45    fires only wait the decay of the false one, the deceiver Louis Phillippe, to burst forth in
one  great  flame—not  a  flame,  we  ardently  hope,  like  that  of  the  old  French
revolution—but  one  of  a  steady,  healthy  pure  brightness.  The  mottled  empire  of

  	195


Austria is filled with the seeds of rebellion—with thousands of free hearts, whose aspirations ever tend to the downfall of despotism: and the numerous petty German states, too, have caught the sacred ardor. In Switzerland, an insurrectionary movement is mentioned by the last accounts. Spain and Portugal form a ‘troubled sea,’—but oil
for the waters there must be long, long yet, in coming. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	5
We must not mention England, because she stands too far ahead of the others. The
noble, staunch old country! With all her faults, and her injustice to others, if we were
not an American, no other land but hers could satisfy our American wishes. In her
borders proper there is already no need of revolutions: for the mighty progress of
unfettered public opinion is gradually achieving reforms—and haply will in a method  10
of peace and quiet, remove the wrongs under which her people yet labor.





February 11, 1847

15

State of the Common Schools—

Synopsis of the Superintendent’s Report

The number of public free districts is 11,008. The number of children in the state  20
between the ages of five and sixteen, (exclusive of the city,) 625,899, an increase since
last year of 4485. In New York city 78,000. The whole number of school children
703,390—an increase since last year of 12,485. Of these only 4128 attended school the
whole year, and 2,626 attended less than two months; 141,255 learned vocal music; 1361
studied mental philosophy; 16,400 studied chemistry; 9700 studied physiology; 1900  25
bookkeeping. There are over 11,000 colored children. The compensation paid to male
teachers averages $14 16 per month—to female teachers $6 75 exclusive of board. The
highest wages paid to males $26—to females $11. No wonder the schoolmaster goes
‘‘abroad’’ if this is his best estate. 1261 teachers above 30 years of age—1522 under 18,
chiefly females. Only 375 had taught the same school three consecutive years. The  30
whole amount paid from public sources for education $1,191,607 70. Of this $55,000 is
for  district  school  libraries.  The  whole  capital  of  the  common  school  fund  is,  in
productive property, $2,133,943—unproductive $163,800.

35



February 12, 1847



Why Do Theatres Languish?

And How Shall the American Stage Be Resuscitated?	40

    To him who has anything like a proper appreciation of the noble scope of good of which an American drama might be made capable, the inquiry now-a-days must often suggest itself. Is it not amazing that we have not before this thrown off our slavish dependence even in what some would call a comparatively small matter of theatricals?  45
It is full time.—English managers, English actors, and English plays, (we say it in no spirit of national antipathy, a feeling we hate) must be allowed to die away among us,

196	  


as usurpers of our stage. The drama of this country can be the mouth-piece of freedom, refinement, liberal philanthropy, beautiful love for all our brethren, polished manners and an elevated good taste. It can wield potent sway to destroy any attempts at despotism—it can attack and hold up to scorn bigotry, fashionable affectation, avarice,
5    and all unmanly follies. Youth may be warned by its fictitious portraits of the evil of unbridled passions. Wives and husbands may see perhaps for the first time in their lives, a long needed lesson of the absurdity of contentious tempers, and of those small but painful disputes that embitter domestic life—contrasted with the pleasant excel- lence of a forbearing, forgiving, and affectionate spirit. The son or daughter just enter-
10    ing the door of dissipation may get timely view of that inward rottenness which is concealed in such an outside of splendor. All—every age and every condition in life— may with profit visit a well regulated dramatic establishment, and go away better than when they came.—In order to reap such by no means difficult results, the whole method of theatricals, as at present pursued in New York, needs first to be overthrown.—The
15    great and good reformer who should with fearless hand attempt the task of a new organization, would meet with many difficulties and much ridicule; but that he would succeed is in every respect probable, if he possessed ordinary perseverance and discretion. New York city is the only spot in America where such a revolution could be attempted, too. With all our servility, to foreign fashion, there is at the heart of the
20    intelligent masses there, a lurking propensity toward what is original, and has  a stamped American character of its own. In N. York, also, are gathered together  a number of men—literary persons and others—who have a strong desire to favor any thing which shall extricate us from the entangled and by no means creditable position we already hold of playing second fiddle to Europe. These persons—most  of them
25    young men, enthusiastic, democratic, and liberal in their feelings—are daily acquiring a greater and greater power. And after all, any thing appealing to the national heart of the people, as to the peculiar and favored children of freedom,—as to a new race and with a character separate from the kingdoms of other countries—would meet with a ready  response,  and  strike  at  once  the  sympathies  of  all  the  true  men  who  love
30    America, their native or chosen land.
As to the particular details of the system which should supplant theatricals as they
now exist, the one who in greatness of purpose conceives the effort only can say. That
effort  must  be  made  by  a  man  or  woman  of  no  ordinary  talent—with  a  clear
comprehensiveness of what is wanted—not too great a desire for pecuniary profit—
35    little respect for old modes and the accustomed usage of the stage—an American in
heart and hand—and liberal in disposition to provide whatever taste and propriety
may demand. The assistance of writers of genius will of course be required. The whole
custom of paid newspaper puffs should be discarded, entirely and utterly. There is
hardly any thing more contemptible, and indeed unprofitable in the long run, than this
40    same plan of some paid personage writing laudatory notices of the establishment
which pays him, and then sending them to the newspapers, to be printed as the
spontaneous opinions of the editors. A person of genius, we say again, must effect this
reform—and about genius there is something capable of seeing its course instinctively
for  itself,  which  makes  trifling  hints,  details,  and  minor  particulars,  altogether
45    impertinent.  Until  such  a  person  comes  forward,  and  works  out  such  a  reform,
theatricals in this country will continue to languish, and theatres be generally more

  	197


and more deserted by men and women of taste, (rightfully too) as has been the case for eight or ten years past.



5

February 12, 1847
Brooklyn Public Schools—Statistics and Suggestions

    We are so impressed with the reality that every thing relating to the public schools  10 of Brooklyn is of the highest importance, in almost every point of view, that we like well to keep the subject of those schools as much as possible before our readers. It is by frequently directing attention to them, by calling out suggestions in relation to them, and by encouraging beneficent labors directed toward their advancement, that the best results may be anticipated. After all, too, the prodigious scope of the capacity for good  15 which  these  schools  hold,  is  not  half  realized  by  the  citizens.  We  often  hear  the draughts of the schools on the treasury complained of—and further expenses are always grudgingly allowed, if not refused point blank. But truly the outlays on schools
are the wisest economy: such outlays preclude ignorance, crime and pauperism. In no more judicious way could our municipal papas expend a few more thousand dollars  20 annually, than in having three free night schools, in Brooklyn, and a superior seminary
for the gratuitous instruction of the more advanced pupils of the common schools, and for apprentices and young men.
    We question, too, whether the public are fully aware of the numerical amt. of the youth resident in Brooklyn, who must be educated—or remain ignorant. By the census  25 recently taken it appears that the number of children in the city between the ages of
5 and 16 years is as follows: white, 13,955; colored, 387; total, 14,342. The number attending public schools, is: white, 4345; colored, 225. The number of private schools in the city is 70; the number of pupils attending the same, 3500. By this it is shown that
only a little more than half the children in Brooklyn between 5 and 16 years old attend  30 school. Such a fact is by no means creditable to that portion of our citizens whose offspring are debarred the means of education. It is a cogent argument however, in behalf
of free evening schools; for doubtless many of those boys who do not attend day school would be able to come in the evening. . . . Compared with public schools of other cities, we believe those of Brooklyn are deserving high praise—that they stand in the  35 front rank. But compared with what might be done, the field for improvement is quite sufficiently large yet.



40

February 12, 1847
Suffering and Deaths by Starvation in Ireland

As  we  remarked  yesterday—and  have  remarked  many  times  of  late—the  45
accounts received by the late arrivals from Europe present the most heart-rending

198	  


pictures of the deplorable condition of the people in Ireland. We select, from a mass of statements of like painful character, the following evidences of the wide-spread suffering that exists in that unhappy country. The Londonderry Standard says:
[Quotation deleted—63 ll.]
5




February 13, 1847

10


Peace with Mexico

    We are as much in favor of peace with Mexico as any one can be—but how on earth are we to get peace, while our adversary obstinately persists in carrying on the war, and refusing to receive our diplomatic agents? War is a horrible evil: so is anarchy—but as the latter is less horrible than despotism so is war far less in its evils,
15    than quieter but deeper dangers. The whig party—the leaders of it—are acting a dastardly part in connection with the present state of things! They prostitute the sacred name of peace, to help their own miserable petty spite toward the administration— may we not say toward the country? Dare any whig legislator in congress to take the responsibility of stopping the war, on any easier terms than the president himself
20    offers?





February 13, 1847
25


[Italian Opera]


    More as tending, by comparison and familiarity, to elevate the standard of music in this country—than as anything to bow down to, or servilely imitate—the Italian opera deserves a good degree of encouragement among us. Thus it is to be hoped that
30    the company now performing at Palmo’s, N. Y., will take root, and become what Susan Nipper calls ‘a permanency’. . . . . . Coppola’s Nina Pazza per Amore was performed at the opera house, for the last time, last evening. The piece has no very marked features, either as to originality or beauty; it is written in a light and sparkling style, and one might liken its introduction to the first inhalment of a good glass of champagne. The
35    earlier  performance  of  the  prima  donna  is  the  representation  of  the  love-cracked Nina’s ravings—and, like most musical derangements, is rather flat; but in the first scene of the second act come a few strains of peculiar beauty, which are sung by Pico in that  rich  and  liquid  style  so  much  her  own.  This  scene  also  contains  Signor Sanquirico’s song, composed to accommodate his chattering style, and concluded with
40    a fol-de-rol jig, which, (notwithstanding the fashionable, and presumed classical taste of the audience,) brought forth the most natural and hearty bursts of applause. . . . . . If Pico’s voice had more scope she would be a quite unrivalled first singer—being a good artist in every respect. Her concluding songs, in connection with Benedetti (in character, her lover) were exquisite in quality and execution; so much so, that perhaps
45    even Robie Burns, in his excentric humor, would not have objected to those sweet and wild ‘‘Italian trills’’ as concluding strains to ‘‘old Dundee.’’

  	199




February 13, 1847


Children of Father Type


    In a convenient and moderate-priced form, the Harpers have issued the lives of Balboa, Cortez and Pizarro. These bold hardy, and not too well principled Spaniards—	5 the  voyagers  to,  and  invaders  of,  some  of  the  pleasantest  portions  of  the  new continent—can never fail to be themes of interest to all readers. We recommend our studious young Brooklynites to peruse such books as this with the handy aid of a map. . . . . . Some religious discourses of the Rev. Asa Mahan, (president of the Oberlin college,  Ohio)  are  collected  together  and  published  in  similar  form,  by  the  same  10 house, under the name of the True Believer. They are ardent and zealous—but too prohibitory toward the graces and accomplishments of life. . . . . . . The Young Christian encouraged, written by Louisa Payson Hopkins, comes from the enterprising young firm of Gates & Stedman, Nassau st. corner of Beekman, N. Y. If the authoress has diffused the same merit in this as in her charming stories, it will bear out terms of  15 considerable praise. It is, of course, of a strictly religious cast. . . . Another edition of that clever work the Rambler in Mexico, by Charles Joseph Latrobe, is ushered from
the Harpers’ press. At this time all that relates to, or describes Mexico, is sought for—
and Mr. Latrobe’s book deserves confidence. . . . The Easy manual of reading, speaking,
and singing, (Gates & Stedman pub.) comprises some useful suggestions and exer-  20
cises in elocution and vocal music. We are much in favor of both those exercises, and
think they should be carefully attended to in every seminary for the young. The
work alluded to contains a brief collection of musical pieces also. . . . . . . Fortescue,
second part, by James Sheridan Knowels, (Harpers pub.) forms no. 94 of the ‘library
of  select  novels,’  rendered  in  cheap  form—the  price  of  this  being  twenty-five  25
cents. . . . . . . No. 144 of that imperial publication—(for democrat as we are we are fain
to  commend  the  royal—in  the  ‘republic  of  letters,’)—contains  the  usual  splendid
culling of foreign and native shoots—the pride of the magazines. Wm. Taylor, 2 Astor
house, N. Y. (an ample book-place and periodical depot,) is the agent for Brooklyn and
New York.	30




February 15, 1847
35
One of the Sacredest Rights of an American Citizen Outraged—
Punishment of an Editor for Daring to Speak His Mind

    The Washington Union of the early part of last week had some sharp remarks on certain U. S. senators—and on Saturday last, (13th) the U. S. senate passed a vote  40 expelling the editor of the W. U. from the senate-chamber. Of old Mr. Ritchie we think not. Whether he and his be good, bad or indifferent, has little to do with the matter as it at present stands. The only point is, that the editor of a free press, in this free land, has been punished for speaking his free opinions—as he, we, or the reader must ever own the right to do, so long as our constitution stands. This deed of the  45 senate is an outrage which should call forth an indignant thunder-roll of condemna-
    
200	  


tion, from every man that loves the first principles of freedom and free discussion. It involves  the  greatest  requisite  of  the  safety  of  republican  governments—for  we hesitate not to say, that there could be no perpetuated liberty, in this country, if the principle on which the senate have acted be justifiable, and be pursued. Once suppress
5  the privilege—the privilege? the life-bought and blood-sealed and law-guarded right!—of the editors of papers to criticise the proceedings and votes of public bodies, particularly legislative bodies, through the country—and the whole fabric of our government would fall in, as a house without a framework. . . . . . Who dare say they are not amenable to editors? Not even the monarchs in England—or the church. And
10    shall a legislative body—the servants of the people, in this democratic land—assume that exclusiveness?
    On the occasion of the debate which ended in this piece of tyrannical and most undignified spite, senator Allen offered some sensible remarks for which the lovers of independent discussion might thank him—were it not that they state truths so plain,
15    as to make one wonder why they should need a statement at all; which wonder is answered, however, by the after-action of the senate itself. Mr. Allen denied the right of the legislative branch of the government to assume, under the name of privilege, any power not given to it by the constitution. If congress once began to censure the press, there could be no stopping place. If we censured an editor here, we might soon
20    censure one in Baltimore or New Orleans; and if we assumed the right of censure, we would, by the next step, assume to punish by imprisonment. The question was whether the senate could take cognizance of a libel. Each senator had a recourse to the law as every other person had, for the protection of official reputation. He did not believe the constitution would survive half a century if we muzzled the press.
25    He had been as severe a sufferer personally from an unlicenced press as any one. He had seen fifteen hundred presses all at work at the business of agitation, with the aid of some thousands of phrenzied stump orators;—and while many trembled for the safety of the very frame work of our institutions, he hailed it rather as a proof of its stability. Mr. A. would have nothing to say as to the offence given by the editor in
30    this case; for however aggravated it might be, it did not affect the argument. The pretext of guarding the dignity of the senate would depend upon its acts, and was beyond the reach of libellers. In no contest of this sort could the senate gain anything; for public opinion would always take the side of an individual against an organized body.
35		We now wait with some curiosity and not a little impatience, to see what the ‘voice of the press’ through the scope of the country will be—and whether the senate itself will not have a ‘sober second thought.’




40
February 16, 1847



[Dull Day]


The Brooklyn Eagle ‘begs leave to state,’ that this is one of the dullest days it has
45    ever experienced. A flat turgidity seems to pervade every thing. Leaden clouds cover
the heavens—the air is bitter and raw—there ain’t any news—and B. E. is not i’ the
vein for knitting editorials, at all.

  	201




February 16, 1847


[Park Theatre]


    The  Keans  having  concluded  their  engagement  at  the  Park  theatre,  (to  very intelligent and slim houses,) the dancer Augusta commences her ‘career ’ to-night.	5
When is the manager at the Park going to give the public a taste of English opera?





February 17, 1847

10
Slavery in New Territory


    The stand which the U. S. house of representatives has taken in reference to the extension of slavery, over new states, to be acquired by the present war, cannot but meet the approval of all who take ample views of consequences and the future. And  15 yet we must confess to an aversion to the agitation of this subject; there has been so much  foolish  and  fanatical  stuff,  written  and  said,  on  it—so  much  fiery passion aroused, and prejudice formed—that it is full of trouble! But as to building up the edifice of slavery any firmer—spending the money and lives of the north, (for the north and west bear five-sixths of the burthen of the war,) to make additional slave  20 states, the thing is out of the question, and it seems to us no man worthy the name of true democrat could wish it. . . . . . The following is a transcript of the anti-slavery proviso which was inserted in the three million bill in the U. S. H. of R. by the decisive vote of 115 to 105—the delegation from one slave state, (Delaware) voting for it too:
‘‘Provided, further, that there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any  25
territory on the continent of America which shall hereafter be acquired by or annexed
to the United States by virtue of this appropriation, or in any other manner whatever,
except for crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted; Provided, always,
that every person escaping into such territory, from whom labor or service is lawfully
claimed in any one of the United States, such fugitive may be lawfully claimed and  30
conveyed out of said territory to the person claiming his or her labor or service.’’





February 17, 1847

35
Indeed a Literary Banquet


    Even in these days of the condensing of valuable literature into cheap and current forms—days of ‘reading for the million’—when treasures of mind, far more valuable than any physical treasures, are made accessible to the poor and simple, alike with rich  40 and learned—even in these days it is notable that a work like Chambers’s cyclopædia of English literature, in the massive, elegant, and portable style of its publication—and in
the method of easily bought periodical issues—should be presented in such a low- priced form. In all the ample store of Graham’s, (N. Y., Tribune building,) periodical and book depot, whence it comes to us, there is hardly a work which the Brooklyn  45
Eagle could candidly prefer to this cyclopædia. . . . . . Our readers know that we are not given to superlatives of praise—especially in the criticism of literary effusions. This

202	  


may then invest the more reality in our commendation of this noble work. It is indeed noble! it offers no sickly food—no flummery—to the appetite of the brain; but viands rich and wholesome, served up in regal state, and adorned by the genius of those who stand as princes among their kind. Thereat may one descend to the inexhaustible
5    depths of souls whose poetry goes deeper than ever the plummets of mere ordinary masters—may stand at leisure, and view the rich ore, and the glitter of diamonds, and listen to immortal music. For there are the great chorus, from Chaucer and Spenser, to Shakspere—and from him down to Sidney Smith and Lord Brougham. (Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, at Boston, publishers.)
10




February 18, 1847

15



Women Should Possess Their Own!


    In one feature of the Wisconsin constitution there is manifested a more enlight- ened spirit of progress, and a more just sense of what we believe to be an important public  duty,  than  seemed  to  actuate  a  majority  of  the  members  of  our  recent
20    convention. Woman, in Wisconsin, is a being cared for, having rights to protect; rights considered of sufficient importance to find the organic law of the state a protecting shield. The holy partnership formed by matrimonial alliance does not, in Wisconsin, destroy woman’s individuality. All property owned by her before marriage, or acquired by her after, except that acquired from her husband, shall be her separate
25    property. This is as it should be. She who shares in common with man the adversities incident to humanity, when they occur from causes beyond control, should, certainly, be made as secure as possible from the miseries entailed by the conduct of thoughtless and improvident men. There is, certainly, nothing in the intellectual or social character of woman that renders her incompetent in a married state to exercise a proper use or
30    make a proper disposition of property acquired by her industry, or inherited from others. A being who so deeply interests us as woman, should be carefully protected in the enjoyment of every right which is naturally hers.




35
February 19, 1847



[Free Night Schools]


Are we to have those free night schools?
40



February 20, 1847

45	The Young Mechanics of Brooklyn, (and Old Ones Too) Should  Take More Interest in the Free Library

    Among the objects in which all the people of Brooklyn should take peculiar interest, stands the youth’s free library, whose weekly meetings are held at the institute
    
  	203


in Washington st. It is particularly desired by those who have control of this library that the mechanics of Brooklyn should identify themselves more fully with it. Surely the object of the institution needs little commendation at our hands! for the diffusion of learning, among the young workingmen, is something whose claims are evidently high and good. . . . . . . Public attention is particularly called to the performances of	5 the youth’s free library on Monday evening next, (22d), when various premiums will be distributed among the pupils. It will doubtless be an interesting and noble sight; and
the Brooklyn Eagle advises all its readers,—women and men, young and old—to visit this performance, (the admission is free,) on Monday night next.
10




February 20, 1847


Twigs from the Press-Tree
15

    Very readable and spicy are Dr. Von Tschudi’s Travels in Peru during the years 1838 to ’42, on the coast, in the Sierra, across the Cordilleras and the Andes, and into the primeval forests. Next to the pleasure of dashing through such scenes of nature—the pleasure of a taste of primeval freshness—of the grand, the new, the abrupt, the adventurous—is such a work as this translation from the German. It is published by  20
Wiley & Putnam—forming nos. 93 and ’4 of their ‘library of choice reading.’ Being printed in the form of the foregoing nos., it is of course well printed.
    A second edition of the Letters, conversations, and recollections of S. T. Coleridge, (Harpers  pub.)  has  been  called  for  by  the  public  appetite;  making  one  of  the pleasantest evidences in the world—to authors and publishers, at all events—of the  25 merit  of  a  book.  Indeed  anything  relating  to  Coleridge—that  legitimate  child  of imagery,  and  true  poet—will  for  many  years  yet  be  interesting. . . . . .  This  book presents him in his every-day attire, not dressed for company. It presents his familiar remarks, his impromptus, his unveiled thoughts. The work is very neatly got up.
Henry William Herbert’s Roman traitor, a true tale of the republic, (W. Taylor pub.,  30
Astor house N. Y.) comes commended by stout backers in the way of friendly criticism.
We observe it to be handsomely praised in several of the monthly reviews, who say
that the author has made a successful effort in a high grade of novel writing. The plot
is woven with the events of the conspiracy of Cataline, who, (we suppose,) is the hero.
Roman history is a comparatively untrodden field for the writers of fiction—and one  35
which must present many interesting points. . . . . . . Two vols. fairly printed.
Cinq-Mars, translated by Wm. Hazlitt from the French (ninth edition) of de Vigny,
is unusually well issued for a twenty-five cent edition. The style of the book is smooth
and good, and the incidents of an interesting nature. We class it among the better
novels. (Harpers pub.)	40
Probabilities, an aid to faith, by the author of ‘Proverbial philosophy,’ (Wiley &
Putnam, pub.) has a lofty, an august scope of intention! It treats of the great mysteries
of the future, of God and his attributes, of the fall of man, of heaven and hell! The
author, Mr. Tupper, is one of the rare men of the time. He turns up thoughts as with a
plough, on the sward of monotonous usage. We should like well to go into this book,  45
in a fuller article; but justice to it would require many pages.
Supernaturalism of New England, (same pub.) is from the pen of J. G. Whittier, the
poet. It is a mixture of the playful and metaphysical. It involves many of the still
current items of phantomrie in the eastern states.

204	  


    Harpers’ Pictorial England is continued in rapid and beautiful issues—it being now brought down to the 18th number. As a specimen of fine printwork, this ‘England’ is quite unsurpassed; the engravings are numerous and artistical. The book as an honest history, receives high praise in the British reviews.
5		Questions in geography, adapted for the use of any respectable collection of maps, embracing,  by  way  of  question  and  answer,  such  portions  of  the  elements  of geography as are necessary as an introduction to the study of the maps; to which is added a description of the terrestrial globe, by R. G. Parker, A.M., (Harpers, pub.) is a work not only for school instruction, but for the domestic learner.
10




February 20, 1847

15



Williamsburgh—Meeting for Ireland


    A call has been issued, signed by Thomas C. Moore, Joseph Boughton, and others, in Williamsburgh, for a meeting at Lexington hall, this evening, to devise measures for the relief of the starving poor of Ireland. We hope Williamsburgh will not be behind
20    in this good work.




February 22, 1847
25
The Reason Why We Have Our Flag Flying To-day, (22d)

    Even if the Brooklyn Eagle did not—as it certainly does—think it well to seize every fair occasion for impressing our people, with the high example and spirit of
30    American patriots and patriotism—such an occasion as to-day, the anniversary of the birth of WASHINGTON, would demand a fitting mention. Washington! the truest hero of humanity! the paragon of warriors! the christian statesman! the GOOD MAN! All earth has no loftier historical beauty than is involved in the doings of Washington. Let every American youth keep the life of our true Nature’s Nobleman, as a familiar book—one
35    to read daily: one which has choice extracts from his writings, and the whole of his farewell address. . . . . . The fame of our Hero is world-wide:
[Quotation omitted—65 ll.]




40
February 22, 1847



Public Feeling in Criminal Trials


When a case for murder, for heavy forgery, or for seduction, is before a public
45    tribunal in New York, little crowds begin in the morning at about nine o’clock to gather
in the avenues and on the portico of the city hall. Many strangers in town go out of
curiosity; there are besides great numbers of idle people at a loss for some way of
spending their time—and sundry friends and acquaintances of the parties engaged in

  	205


the trial. Officers with long staves stand in the passages leading to the court room, to keep the crowd back, and to prevent any boisterous conduct. Some of these guardians of order are by no means scrupulous in the use of their weapons.—knocking about them  right  and  left,  and  rapping  people’s  heads  and  shoulders  sometimes  quite
outrageously. The writer well remembers the struggle he had to get in the court room,	5
at the trial of John C. Colt. The crowds in attendance were very large. There was a kind
of ferocious interest felt in that case, which seemed quite disgusting. Men were so
fearful that any thing would turn up to the advantage of the accused. Wretched fellow!
how he was hunted by an unrelenting public appetite for blood! How every sign of his
fate pressing upon him was met by exulting looks from the spectators, and by words of  10
gratification from the next day’s newspaper readers! There existed a feverish jealousy
lest he might be only sent to prison for life, and not strangled. Public malignance was
aroused; and cloaking itself in the convenient garb of justice, the most inhuman spirit
of revenge pervaded the bosoms of the people. . . . . . Wretched is he on whom the ban
of his fellows either justly or unjustly falls! At every point, he sees nothing but scowls,  15
savage  hate,  and  supercilious  aversion.  In  such  a  dreadful  situation,  there  seems
almost to be but one resource, death. Refined metaphysicians may talk about the self-
poising power of the soul, and all such fanciful abstractions—but assuredly no human
being worthy the name, can exist without sympathy, respect, and companionship. And
there can be no harder fate than that of him against whom society has set its bar.  20





February 24, 1847


The March Monthlies	25


    Graham’s magazine has good reading in it—and a capital engraving of Indian figures; the prize stories are commenced in this number. The Columbian gives the always acceptable contributions of Mrs. Child—and several lady writers of more ordinary fame. Godey’s, (with its tasty cover,) has a variety of pictures, models for  30 cottages, patterns for lace-work, &c. The National, ($2 a year,) has a contribution of one
of the cleverest of our American writers, F. E. F.





February 24, 1847

35

What an Idea!


    The N. Y. Sun (24th,) says, in an article against the unity of the United States as one government: ‘‘The liberty of the country is centered in the independence of the states,  40 and with a good understanding with each other a general government might be dispensed with. Our government is a union of free states, and not a consolidation of states.’’. . . . . . Our government, for certain purposes, is a ‘consolidation.’ The wisdom
of that principle is proved in the past and present; but in the local matters of the states,
this consolidation does not give congress the right to interfere.—Perhaps no human  45
institution—from which so much clashing was expected—has ever turned out better,
than the ‘separate independence’ of the federal and state governments. With one
exception,  (and  even  that,  in  its  result,  only  proves  the  sanatory  powers  of  the

206	  


consolidation.) they have never jarred. Each has its sphere apart from the other—and each keeps in its sphere.
    But the worst of such insidious articles as the Sun’s, is that they depress the idea of the sacredness of the bond of union of these states. That bond is the foundation of
5    incomparably the highest political blessings enjoyed in the world! And the position of things at present demands that its sacredness should be recognized by every and all American citizens—however they may differ on points of doctrine or abstract rights.



10

February 25, 1847
The Brooklyn Eagle on the Rio Grande—A Snow Storm

15		Even in these days of steam and magnetism, it may attract some little attention when we inform our readers that the Brooklyn Eagle went out from its usual tarrying place yesterday afternoon, (24th) spent an hour and a half on the Rio Grande, and was back again ‘to tea!’ Verily, though, such is the fact. . . . . . How brightly shone the sun! and how the pure frosty air cut around one’s face! Yet it was good so—at least it was
20    better than the dead warmth of our stove-heated rooms. The snow lay like a huge clean kerchief  spread  over  the  bosom  of  the  venerable  Mrs.  Nature.  So  much  white, however, dazzled one’s eyes, and made them ache after a while—whereat one had to shut them, thus seeing all kinds of gorgeous-colored dots, mingling and tumbling together, in a sort of chaos of dusky vastness. . . . . . The snow! (it is falling wondrous
25    heavily, while we write, this, Thursday morning) the stainless, lily-white offspring of the upper atmosphere! the gentle sister of the less etherial rain! how softly it comes, and rests on the bare limbs of the trees, and on the roofs of houses, and on the wide fields—and dissolves in the river—and obliterates paths, making a sort of democratic equality on the surfaces which it covers. If the wind would only let it alone, instead of
30    so often worrying it, and hurrying it, against its own milder wishes, we should see more beautiful shapes made by the snow—’specially that marvellous way in which it sometimes dresses the bare limbs of trees. . . . . . And what a profound chemist must the ‘clerk of the weather ’ be! to evolve such an innocent and blanched result as the snow, from so many foul gases and noisome exhalations as are sent up to him! Thus
35    out  of  evil—for  so  God  hath  ordained  it—comes  good,  in  the  moral  world. . . . . 
Emblem of sinlessness! how like the uncorrupted mind of a babe lies the snow, after its
clear passage from above. An emblem of death, too, it is! with its great shroud—and
stealing down, without any noise—and so chill and cold.
[Description of boat trip omitted—86 ll.]
40




February 26, 1847

45


The UNION Now and Forever!

    Does the Sun mean really to say that each ‘united state’ is a separate sovereign in fact, and in its own right? that it could (for that would follow,) withdraw itself at pleasure from the union? that it could do any thing at all, in conflict with the supreme
    
  	207


power of the constitution and congress? that it is ‘independent’ any farther than that it has full power to manage its own local affairs, and supervise its local institutions? Nay: we think it time that such an extreme heresy (appropriately nestling in the extreme sections of Massachusetts and South Carolina,) should be discountenanced by all true
Americans. Especially at this juncture, is the potency of the union to be upheld: for	5 angry  voices  are  already  heard  even  at  the  capitol,  threatening  it  under  certain contingencies. . . . . . .  Perhaps,  however,  the  difference  between  the  Sun  and  us involves but the explanation of a word. ‘Consolidation’ (as we suppose) comprises the idea of compact, too; and our states are certainly compacted; while just as certainly the greatest and amplest powers of the government are consolidated in congress and the  10 president. But congress and the president can’t go a step farther than the constitution allows them—wherein is the palladium of the states’ rights.
    ‘‘The  union  of  the  states,’’  says  the  Sun,  ‘‘consists,  therefore,  in  each  state maintaining its own sovereignty and independence, passing its own laws, providing
for its own local government; and each state by a constitutional compact becomes  15
united within itself.’’ In such talk as this, though it is quite common, there is evidently
a misapplication of terms. If each state really possesses ‘sovereignty and indepen-
dence,’ each can do what she pleases, irrespective of any limit. But there are many
things which the states cannot do. Among other things they have no right to ‘nullify’
the  union.—‘E  pluribus  UNUM’  stares  such  a  remark  as  we  have  quoted  at  the  20
commencement of the paragraph, in the face, and puts it down. . . . . . We, perhaps, are
as much a ‘strict constructionist’ as our N. Y. contemporary can be—as much in favor
of keeping back power from a central point, and having it wielded by the people who
are to be directly acted on by it. But we stand by the Constitution, and the Union which
stands  with  it—and  we  say  that  no  dogma  or  abstraction—no  fancied  grief  or  25
rebellious  excitement—no  long-drawn  inference—shall  allow  the  foundation  of  a
point of danger to that sacred twain.



30

February 26, 1847
Tone of the American Press—Personality

It is of course very important for the public to know all about the personal  35
differences and quarrels that occur between literary men, and also their manners and
‘‘notions’’—whether A. eats roast beef or Graham bread, and whether he understands
a given scripture text this way or that way. It is a serious thing to the people that B.
talks through his nose, and pronounces ‘‘curious’’ as though it were spelled without
the i. Also how grave a subject for newspaper comment that C. or D. or E. holds certain  40
doctrines which his neighbors do not hold, in metaphysics or in something else.
Scurrility—the truth may as well be told—is a sin of the American newspaper press. It
has degraded our journals, and by consequence our literature, in the minds of many
sensible and worthy persons in Europe. And here at home it has deeply injured the
editorial profession; newspaper writing and police pettifogging are often supposed to  45
be in offensively close proximity. What ridiculous quarrels are often paraded through
column after column, in the prints of the Gomorrah over the river! What family
disputes—what  insipid  attempts  at  satire—what  vile  insinuations—blacken  their

208	  


pages almost every day! Every political print, especially, seems to think itself in duty bound to eject all the virulence it can gather in any shape, upon the character, conduct, names, and personal attributes of its opponents. . . . . . This is very unwise, even upon considerations of policy. Abuse is the worst means of conversion in the world. And
5    when there are so many great principles for political writers to investigate—so much that may be said upon law, government, and the thousand occurrences that are passing about us—and so wide a field for discussion in the relative bearing of party doctrines—we are surprised indeed that any print can give up the smallest portion of its space to these senseless combats. We wonder that men can take such pains to
10    behave at the dinner table or in the drawing room with perfect decorum, and keep all their egotism and vulgarity for the public. Great force in the daily writer is highly desirable—but force does not consist in a foul mouth.



15

February 26, 1847
Will You Not Spend an Hour To-Night
at the Irish Relief Meeting, at the Brooklyn Institute?
20
    As this is the last call which can be made on the sympathy of Brooklynites with the distressed poor of Ireland, let it amount to something worthy of a concluding demonstration! By the latest arrivals, the news from Ireland is still more and more distressing; and it must of course be the case that for the three months to come the
25    starvation and destitution there will be at meridian. NOW, therefore is the time to act!
Now is the period, above all others, when aid is most needed—to reach them in their
severest afflictions. What is given now, will do a ten-fold good. . . . . . . . . . . . While
we write this article, the merry sound of innumerable sleigh-bells—jingling cheerfully
to laughing parties who are enjoying the pleasures of the time—falls continuously on
30    our hearing. But in that distant and dreary, though naturally rich and beautiful island,
we can almost imagine we hear the wailings, and the groans, and the audible anguish
of a people stricken—of mothers, for their dying babes, and husbands for their wives,
and children for their famished parents! Ah, let it not be said that amid all this
merriment we have not some little to give from our abundance! . . . . . . Reader! poor
35    or rich—gentle or simple—do something—whatever you can, in proportion to your
means—for this holy object.—Attend the meeting TO-NIGHT (Friday,) at the institute
on Washington street, and aid what measures may be settled upon there!




40
March 1, 1847



[Religious Duties]


The repetition of religious duties, without the feeling or spirit of religion, produces
45    an incurable callosity of heart. There are not more irreligious people to be found on
earth than those who are occupied always in religious externals!

  	209




March 1, 1847


A Little Paragraph, with a Big Moral


‘‘I can’t find bread for my family,’’ said a lazy fellow in company. ‘‘Nor I,’’ replied
an industrious miller, ‘‘I am obliged to work for it.’’	5





March 2, 1847


10
How About the Doings in Congress?

Now That One Day More Will Bring Its Close

The Brooklyn Eagle avails itself of the following common-sense abstract from the
N. Y. True Sun, in relation to the present state of important bills &c. pending the nigh-  15
at-hand winding up of the twenty-ninth congress. In giving it, we would add the
remark that the greatest fault of this congress has been its want of consistency and deci-
sion. In politics those qualities, the latter particularly, are all in all: and in governments
all that approaches fickleness or vaccilation, or want of nerve to do what it would do, is
quite deplorable. The president himself has shown far more decision than congress—  20
and though the whigs, and a portion of the democrats too, have been thinking that
Mr. Polk was a man not of resolute will, we are sure the course of ‘young hickory’
effectually puts down that idea. And we honor him for it; a man must be ‘one thing
or the other,’ to gain the respect of the people. . . . . . . . . . . . We particularly mean to
blame congress for not expressing itself decidedly in the matter of this Mexican war. Let  25
us either prosecute the war properly, or stop it altogether. It needs no argument to prove that
a middle course injures our prospects for the future, injures our army, and inspirits our
enemy: [Abstract from Sun omitted—71 1⁄2     ll.]

30



March 4, 1847


Loss of the Wilmot Proviso


Several of the papers are in a fury and gloom because the Wilmot proviso was  35
quashed in the U. S. senate—and because the quashing is concurred in by the house.
We, too, desired the enactment of that proviso: but it is by no means vitally important.
We look on public opinion as ahead of law in this matter: indeed on such subjects, we
have more faith in public opinion than law. The future of the new territory and its
organization can safely be left to it. In the mean time, let all hands smooth down and  40
become calmer: we have had too much angry excitement in congress—too many
threats and imperious expressions—too many insults to that mother of all our liberty,
the republic’s union. . . . . . . . . One thing is assured, beyond a peradventure: the
freemen of the north never will consent to the making of slave states out of the new territory.
And this very defeat of the Wilmot proviso, will but make sterner and more fixed, the  45
determination of all true lovers of our republic.

210	  



March 4, 1847
An Hour in One of the Brooklyn Public Schools—
Something More about Education and Teachers
5
    We spent the greater part of Tuesday morning (2d) in public school no. 4, Clason av. near Flushing av. The building is not like our downtown school-houses: it is not near as convenient and durable, being built of wood, and somewhat shabby at that. We would take advantage of the occasion to suggest to the school officers of the 4th district
10    and to the board of education, the fine opportunity they have of purchasing cheaply now in East Brooklyn two or three ample sites for school-houses, for the future. Any body can see that in a very few years that thriving section of our city is to be to the rest somewhat as the valley of the Mississippi is to the other part of the union. Children already abound there, and it is quite shocking that the places of their education should
15    be cramped into a small compass, with mean play-grounds, and stifled closeness. And those evils can be so easily precluded. $1500 will buy six lots in many of those streets; and such a surface would afford quite a handsome site for a seminary which would, in a few years, be filled with the people’s children to overflowing. . . . . . . The little people of no. 4 were all busily at work—some at one thing, some at another. We were
20  quite pleased at the absence of the frozenness of restraint—that irksome and unnecessary discipline—which pervades some schools. They were at work, studying and reciting industriously, but (as young people best perform those offices) like creatures of volition, and not like iron machinery. We saw many very fair specimens of writing—some good pencil sketches, in the way of drawing—and listened to exercises
25    in grammar, arithmetic, and geography. In the first branch, we are free to say, we never saw the pupils in any public school who seemed so thoroughly to understand the principles of that study. They delved out the hidden grammatical position of words, that might have puzzled wiser heads—analyzed the parts of sentences, and, by comparison, soon got at the right of some pretty close questions. In arithmetic, too, the
30    boys, (our time did not permit us to pay more than a passing look in the girls’ school, and the primary,) showed that things were among them of more importance than mere signs—that the artificial of learning did not there carry the day, over the real. Among many bright boys, (they were all bright, and it is hardly fair perhaps to select out only a few, after all,) were Wm. Husted, T. H. Taylor, and two brothers named Van Voorhis.
35    The  classes  ran  over  some  other  of  their  studies—and,  upon  the  whole,  made  a marked impression of a favorable kind on us. We think this school an unanswerable argument in favor of treating youth at school as rational creatures—treating them gently, and instructing them in such a way that they understand, and not merely get by rote.—The whipping system should be entirely abolished in every school; it is a
40    scandal on the judgment and efficiency of any teacher who practices it, and any school officer who allows it. The absurd old way of teachers holding themselves aloof from their pupils, and punishing them for errors of mere manner, is exploded; and the day has come when instructors of the ancient kind must either yield to the better light, or fade before it. . . . . . In accordance with our custom, in narrating visits to our
45    Brooklyn schools, we shall improve the chance to jot down a few hints on the matter of education and teachers—which matter really involves the weightiest issues to every man, woman, and child, every where. For what can be of higher consequence to a

  	211


human being than his own mind, his temper, and his knowledge? The mere ordinary objects of wealth, politics, and so on, are comparatively insignificant to them.
    Education, then, is a great subject. Its necessity and value require to be raised in the estimation of men. It is enough spoken about, but it needs to be more felt and acted upon.  Mighty things depend upon the young of the age. Each little child has an	5 immortal soul. He has the treasure house of the human mind; and it depends upon those who ought to see to his education, whether the costly and precious beauties of that treasure house shall be locked up for ever; or brought forth to gladden the eyes of men, and prove a perpetual spring of delight to their now unconscious possessor. Fully
to bring out these boundless capacities, requires hard and laborious attention. Nothing  10
will do but the sleepless eye and the ever guarding hand. Why what mighty energies
lie slumbering at this moment in the brains of the school-children of Brooklyn!—
destined in many of them to slumber for ever, for the want of being brought forth to
the day! energies, equal without doubt, to the performance of great deeds—to the
gaining of deathless fame and glory; or what is better still, of benefitting the condition  15
of mankind. What wondrous things might be done were a complete education, in the
comprehensive sense of the term, given to those children! Possibly at some future time,
the balance of a nation’s happiness might be made to rise or fall by one of their hands.
Who can look down into the dark vista of the future, and say what bright path shall not
be marked out for some of them? Like as arrows in the hands of the giant, says the  20
Bible, even so are young children: happy is he who hath his quiver full of them.
The first requirement from those who have charge of the young, appears to be that
their physical well-being, their health and comfort be attended to. The next undoubt-
edly is with regard to their moral nature. This is an all important part. In youth are laid
the foundations of the character far deeper and far more firmly than we generally  25
imagine. That is the time to make them good and honest, and lovers of truth. The mind
is then a new ground—a virgin soil. Whatever seeds are dropt there, they will take root
and grow up as the child grows up, and bear either the bitter and poisonous or the
sweet and grateful fruit. And the virtues should be planted then deeply and carefully.
Honesty and strict adherence to truth, those mighty anchors of true religion, in that  30
early season of life should be carefully inwoven with the very fibres of the heart. No
anxiety can be too great, and no labor too severe, or care too incessant, if they can but
effect this purpose. Day and night it should be the great aim. Every occasion should be
seized, and every interruption jealously watched, that can influence this important
matter. To plant in the heart of a child this purity, this love of truth, and this beautiful  35
innocence from all evil intentions, ought to be a parent’s fondest wish and strongest
effort. And when the harvest comes, how richly will he be repaid. To know that honest
and upright dispositions are as natural to his child as are the beatings of his heart, will
repay him back a thousand fold for all his toil and all his anxiety. And let no one
suppose that it is so difficult a task to make the mind of a child moral and virtuous. It is  40
this wicked world—it is the corruption which accumulates in the habits and thoughts
of society—that make the young, as they grow up become more and more deficient in
virtue. But it is no impossible task, with proper management, to make a sincere and
truth-loving child. Their brains will receive and nourish good propensities as easily, if
not easier than bad ones. . . . . . . . . . He or she is a foolish parent who thinks that care  45
and labor for a child can be spent in any more desirable way than in making it the
possessor of a heart wherein dwell integrity and pure thoughts, and hatred of all kinds

212	  


of falsehood, and meanness and dishonesty. Desirable as we consider learning to be, we consider an honest soul to be far, far more desirable. Learning is the key which unlocks to us the minds of the wise, and the beauties of creation, and the lofty pleasures of intellect. But a pure soul is the key that unlocks the very gates of paradise:
5    and therefore it is the very perfection of wisdom to confer on the young that which is the most precious. And there is this difference; that while the branches of learning are easiest of access to the children of the opulent, who can best afford the time and expense, and the indigent man can train up his children to have honest minds and characters, as cheaply and as easily as the richest in the land. And the poorest man on
10    earth, with an upright heart, and unblemished reputation, stands forth, yes towers up like a pillar of beauty, by the side of the richest and the proudest, whose minds conscious of wrongs done, and consciences seared, and bad desires given way to, shrink to littleness before his.
It is very common to hear people say that education is a great thing. We question
15    though  whether  one  in  a  hundred  of  those  who  talk  this  way  ever  act  out  the
undoubted truism which is in their mouths. Very few persons are so stupid as not to
acknowledge that it is desirable to have learning.—But are such men willing to take
proper pains and trouble to procure this important requisite for their children, or those
under their charge? Do they find out about the teacher who is to superintend their
20    children’s education? Do they visit the school? Do they carefully examine from time to
time whether a reasonable progress is made? It is true, to do so would be trouble some:
it might cost them a few hours every month, and would require some little exercise of
the judgement; and so it is generally left undone. Now if it were a question where the
loss  or  gain  of  dollars  was  concerned,  would  these  same  individuals  be  thus
25    inattentive? But, says some one, I pay for my children’s schooling and I send them to
school; is not that enough? No: it is not enough. In such an important matter as the
education of the young, each parent should see for himself, and not trust to chance. He
should have frequent conferences with the teacher, arranging what studies ought to be
pursued, and the management of the children, and the procuring of proper books and
30    other appliances for learning. It should be his business to see that the person who
conducts  the  school  is  a  competent  person,  having  in  himself  no  deficiencies  or
characteristics that unfit him for the station. He should also be careful that every
reasonable facility be given to forward his children in their studies, and to increase
their confidence in and respect for their teacher. . . . . . . . . . . We do not hesitate to say,
35    too, that it depends as much upon the parent at home, as upon the teacher at school,
whether the child learns even at school. The parent and teacher should work together
with the same object at heart. It is a sure death-blow to a teacher ’s influence over any
child, when that child is taught at home to find fault with or think contemptuously of
his teacher.—For the great lever in education at school is the confidence of a child in
40    his master. This is a mighty power. With it an intelligent teacher can do wonders. But
when a parent is unwise enough to let his child be impressed with the idea that his
master is blamable and wrong, that he is a person set up for the purpose of wearing
out whips upon boys’ backs, or is a tyrant, and does not deserve to be respected by his
pupils, then the charm is broken; then the best influence of the teacher over the child,
45    the influence of love, is gone; and for all the good he gets, the youthful learner may as
well be kept at home.
A great deal depends too upon making a school pleasant. Any teacher who loses

  	213


sight of this, commits a great error. Who has not heard that such or such a one has learned some particular accomplishment or trade with very remarkable quickness and perfection, because he ‘took a fancy to it,’ and was pleased with it? Has it never entered into the thoughts of those who send to school that it is possible for their children to take a fancy for, and be pleased with, their school, and to improve in their	5 studies there with much more rapidity in consequence? It is evidently then a great object gained when the school is loved and sought, not hated and shunned; and those persons make a capital mistake, if they would but be aware of it, who let their young people be sent to the school room, impressed with the idea that it is a prison, or a dreary and tiresome place. With regard to this last point, we are clear of the good  10 effects of singing exercises in schools. A more innocent amusement, and one practised with better results, both as regards its beneficial aid to other studies and its giving a gentle tone to the passions and tempers of children, there is not.
—It may not be uninteresting to wind up our homily by mentioning of the school
the visit to which has drawn it forth, that the principal is Mr. S. C. Barnes, assisted by  15
his lady and several teachers and monitors—that the whole number of registered
pupils, is 597—that the senior male department contains 119—that the attendance
increases every week—and that they are having some recitation rooms added to the
building, which will make it more eligible. The whole edifice, however, is a poor affair,
inconvenient, and unworthy of such a populous respectable neighborhood, and of the  20
excellent management under which the school now is. Will the E. B.’s not have a larger,
more permanent, more appropriate school building?





March 4, 1847

25

Lately Published Works


AMERICAN   HISTORY;  comprising  historical  sketches  of  the  Indian  tribes,  a  description  of American antiquities, with an inquiry into their origin and the origin of the Indian  30 tribes—history  of  the  United  States,  with  appendices  showing  its  connection  with European history—history of the present British provinces—history of Mexico—and history of Texas, brought down to its admission into the American union. By Marcius Willson, author of school history of the United States, comprehensive chart of American history, etc. N. Y., Mark H. Newman & co. 199 Broadway.	35
    With our views on the subject of the study of history—particularly that part of it which relates to our own land—we have little but commendation to bestow on this handsome, neatly printed work.—The marginal references on the pages, the careful arrangements of dates, &c. (which latter item is generally much neglected in works of
the sort,) and one or two other peculiarities, give this publication of Mr. Newman’s a  40 high claim on teachers and school officers. Further, its value as a compendium of the facts of our country’s life, gives it the right to a place amid those numerous libraries, in
the making up of which economy of space and expense is a pressing consideration. Of the young of Brooklyn and our Long Island schools—of the instructors—we request attention to this book, and to its subject. Every school should make American history  45 one of its branches: every American young man and young woman should be familiar with what has transpired in the native land.

214	  


The FIRESIDE  FRIEND, OR   FEMALE  STUDENT; being advice to young ladies on the important subject of education.—With an appendix, on moral and religious education, from the French of Madame de Laussure. By Mrs. Phelps, late vice-principal of Troy female  seminary. Successive editions of this ‘friend indeed,’ have been called for by  the public
5    appetite, not only in this country, but in England. The subjects treated on are of the widest and deepest interest—interest that comes home to every young female; they are of the kind of company and associations to be sought or avoided—of health and neat- ness, temperance, habits with regard to dress, and care of clothing—curvature of the spine and injuries from tight lacing—of mental discipline and the proper subjects for
10    study—of female manners, music, dancing, and other accomplishments—of personal activity in domestic duties and domestic economy—and of the ample points connected with moral and religious education. The remarks on teachers and teaching are not the least valuable part of the book—nor those on the subject of novel reading. We shall in due time make plentiful extracts from the shorter chapters of the ‘Fireside friend.’
15
WOMAN, AND  HER  DISEASES, FROM  THE  CRADLE TO  THE  GRAVE: adapted exclusively to her instruction in the physiology of her system, and all the diseases of her critical periods. By Edward H. Dixon, M.D.; and for sale by C. H. Ring, Broadway,  cor. John st. N. Y.
‘‘To the pure, all things are pure,’’ is the not inappropriate motto of this work: and
20    the mock delicacy that condemns the widest possible diffusion among females of such
knowledge as is contained in this book, will receive from us no quarter. Let any one
bethink him a moment how rare is the sight of a well-developed, healthy, naturally
beautiful woman: let him reflect how widely the customs of our artificial life, joined
with ignorance of physiological facts are increasing the rarity, (if we may be allowed
25    such  an  approach  to  a  bull,)—and  he  will  hardly  dispute  the  necessity  of  such
publications as this. We find the following paragraph in the preface:

    The domestic administration of physic we abhor; and it is doubtful if a much greater evil exists  in  society,  if  we  except  the  constant  errors  of  youthful  training,  than  the  dosing  of affectionate mothers and aunties;—next to which comes that of a mere physic-giving doctor; one
30    who sees no evil in a complete disregard of every law of nature—bad food, want of exercise, ill made and insufficient clothing, want of personal cleanliness, ill ventilated chambers, etc., etc.— but is ever ready with some paltry drug, that is to restore his patient in a day, and efface the consequences of years of error, and total  prostration  of bodily power.

35    SCENES   IN   NATURE,  or conversations for children—on land and water. Harpers pub.
The  object  of  this  book  is  the  most  laudable  one  of  instructing  youth—and
instructing them in the most pleasing manner. It is founded on a work of Mrs. Marcet,
authoress of ‘‘Conversations on chemistry.’’ It has a tasty colored map and several
wood engravings. The style is clear and plain, which is no small recommendation in a
40    work with its purport.

FLORA’S FESTIVAL; a musical recreation for schools, juvenile singing classes, etc., together with songs, duets, and trios, solfeggios, scales, and plain tunes for singing by note, in thirteen keys, for the advancement of youth who have already acquired some  knowledge of the
45	elements.—Edited by Wm. B. Bradbury. N. Y., Mark H. Newman & co. 199 Broadway.
In these days of musical cultivation, such little books as this must surely have their
‘mission’—and an extensive one.

  	215


DEMOCRATIC  REVIEW;  March. Thomas P. Kettell, 142 Fulton st. N. Y. conductor.
We have for March a richly varied table of contents in this favorite periodical. The
article on capital punishment is a noble one—and we hope the Democratic (which has
flagged on this point of late,) will press forward in the effort for that humane reform.
5
WORLD-SALE, a moral sketch. By Rev. R. Hoyt. C. Shephard, 191 Broadway, N. Y., pub.
JULIA,  a sketch of autumn. Same, &c.
Quaintly but sweetly written, and published in a style of ‘charming negligee.’

ARGUMENT  OF  EDWARD  LIVINGSTON AGAINST  CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; pub. by state society  10
for abolition of capital punishment.
For sale at Wilder ’s, and at Smith & Harrison’s.

THE   CALVARY  TOKEN  AND LITERARY SOUVENIR; April. Edited by Rev. John Newland Maffit.
W. A. Waterstone, 22 Spruce st. N. Y., pub.	15
Contains the address by Mr. Maffit at Greenwood cemetery at the dedication of
the Nassau lodge, O. F. burial ground.

NORTH AMERICAN SCENERY faithfully delineated in a series of illustrative views from original drawings, taken on the spot: by E. Whitefield. H. Long, 32 Ann st., N. Y.	20
    The Brooklyn agency for the sale of this pretty periodical is at Green & Bakers’s literary depot, 69 1⁄2     Fulton st.

Hunt’s MERCHANT’S   MAGAZINE, for March. 142 Fulton st. N. Y.
Many sterling articles are contained in this number—as Indeed there are in every  25
issue of the publication. Every mercantile man should take it.

TALES   OF   WOMAN’S   TRIALS. By Mrs. S. G. Hall. Harpers, pub.
A twenty-five cent edition—but fairly printed.—It forms no. 96 of the ‘library of
select novels,’ published uniform with the others.	30





March 5, 1847


Don’t Be Miserly in Such Matters	35


    The trustees of the new district no. 12 temporarily opened a school on Tuesday morning in a commodious building on Myrtle avenue near Cumberland street, and the names of one hundred pupils are already enrolled. It is expected that the number will shortly increase to two hundred. In the board of education on Tuesday afternoon the  40 trustees requested a small loan, to increase the accommodations for the prospective increase of pupils—the arrangements at the present time being only for one hundred.
A member hereupon gave vent to a violent tirade against the extravagance of the present day. He expressed his astonishment at the rage for education now-a-days, which he said amounted to a perfect fever. His idea was that education should advance  45 no faster than each district should furnish the means; but the trustees of no. 12, asked
for comfortable seats with backs for the children, and he opened his eyes with holy

216	  


horror at the idea of pupils in a district without means aspiring to anything higher than cheap pine benches! If there were not accommodations for the pupils let them go without education! It was a common thing in the public schools for children to be turned away for want of accommodations, and he could not see why the children of
5    no. 12 should be more highly favored than any other district. Another member rather questioned the statement about children being turned away from public schools. If his child had been discarded, he would have the city indicted. The proposed loan for no.
12, was however defeated, and that district will have to get along as best it may until it has pecuniary means of its own.
10		Further on in the proceedings of the board, the same violent opposer of the ‘‘fever for education’’ made a specific motion to close another school which had already or was about to exceed its appropriation; and when the house was divided on the question he found himself in a glorious minority of one in favor of his own motion! We withhold the gentleman’s name, from the respect we entertain for him aside from his
15    peculiar views upon the subject of education. Our object in the above remark is not a personal one, but merely to condemn certain antiquated and ridiculous notions, which we regret to say are participated in quite too widely even at the present day.




20

March 5, 1847




Mrs. C. A. Steuart’s Elementary School


25		Should any of our friends be in quest of a really good primary school for young ladies, the above named would be likely to prove highly satisfactory. We mention the fact  in  justice  both  to  Mrs.  Steuart’s  superior  attainments  and  method,  and  the repeated inquiries made for an improved system of early mental training. Her terms are within the average of those for such classes at the leading seminaries in Brooklyn,
30    and yet in more instances than one we have heard of children being transferred from those institutions to her guardianship. It is everything to enlist the interest and then the comprehension of the young learner; this requires individual attention, and of a kind more closely adapted to the peculiarities of the child, than can be expected in larger classes. It is this feature that has distinguished the school to which we refer. We do not
35    mention the above fact with a view to ‘puff’ into notice one academy more than another; but where real merit exists in any department of our social economy it ought to  be  known and  appreciated.  Mrs.  Steuart  has  recently  returned  from  a  tour  in Europe, and has since last May opened her school at her residence in Gold street, between Willoughby and Fulton sts., Brooklyn. She has also classes in the French and
40    Spanish languages, in both of which she is highly proficient.





March 6, 1847
45


The New Opera


    The Italian co. in N. Y. have at last produced their long promised opera of I Lombardi, or ‘the first crusade,’ written by Verdi, and got up theatrically in a very
    
  	217


superior  manner.  Its  merits  as  a  spectacle  almost  equal  its  qualities  as  a  musical performance—the scenery being very fine, and also superintended by Italian artists, whereat one might imagine some parts of it to be representations of the fair-skied and sunny land. How beautiful, for instance, is that moonlight view in Milan! . . . . . . Beneventano’s voice in no previous opera has so fully developed its powers: those	  5 powers are indeed wonderful, (there can be but few similar specimens in the world,) and in his bursts of musical furor he seems to possess the ability of drowning the entire orchestra! The music of I Lombardi is written in a substantial manner, and every passing note appears to be governed by a profound knowledge of harmony—the only objection to which is, that it results in something of a heavy style. Rapetti plays a violin  10 solo in the third act, which alone is worth going from the ninth ward of Brooklyn to hear; and the solo is backed by one of the sweetest songs Barili ever sang. We would advise all who appreciate the inspiration of true music, to go and hear some of the finest chorus-singing, instrumentation, and arias, ever produced in this part of the country.	15





March 8, 1847


Our Indian Articles	20


    The contributions by Mr. Eeels of ‘Incidents &c. among the Indians,’ which are now being originally published in the Eagle, are strictly and undoubtedly authentic— are real and not mere preparations of the author ’s fancy. What can be more poetical
than the narrated mode of infants’ burial? What can be fresher or more graphic than  25 the picture of savage plenty (see to-day’s article) in March-win’s hut? or of Indian female beauty, in that old chief’s daughter? or what more antithetical than the two points of that daughter ’s existence there presented? . . . . . . Mr. Eeels spent six years
of his life in savage-land, and knows what he writes about—and writes with the fairest integrity. We hope our readers will by no means preclude themselves the pleasure of  30 carefully reading these fresh sketches. They are better than nine-tenths of the ephem-
eral works of amusement, of the day.





March 8, 1847

35

A Good Monthly


    Though the Christian parlor magazine for last month has been belated and just now reaches us, we welcome it none the less—for it is a periodical which deserves a  40 welcome, whether it come late or early. We have once or twice within the past season expressed our impatience at the flippancy of the ‘popular ’ monthly magazines—with their fashion plates, and their sentimental love stories; and we are glad to be able to say that there is one monthly, at all events, which furnishes reading that is reading. The C.P.M. (now pub. at 141 Nassau st. N. Y. at $2 a year by E. E. Miles,) under the editorial  45 charge  of  Rev.  Mr.  Mead,  comprises  in  its  articles  not  only  what  is  generally understood by the term ‘solid reading,’ but stories, of which, though their plot may be fictitious, their morals are off-shoots from immortal truths and virtues! Such is the
    
218	  


story of ‘‘the Father in the snow’’—which we shall seize the first opportunity to put before the readers of our Eagle. Then there are always some well-written didactic articles, and something of a descriptive, historical, or biographical cast—gracefully set off by verses whereof to praise well we need only say that they are not in the vein of
5    the usual monthly magazine verses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We speak thus of this really worthy periodical, because it deserves it; and we stake our critical judgment on the surety that any of our readers who procures it, on this recommendation, will thank us for the hint.

10



March 8, 1847


Lighting the Light


15		We dipped a while into Spurzheim’s ‘‘Education, its elementary principles founded on the nature of man,’’ the other evening: (a late edition pub. by Fowler & Wells, 131 Nassau st. N. Y.) Somehow one feels really awed in reading such a book as this! The style is as calm and clear as one might suppose a god to use, in instructing men. There is no passion,  no  mere  eloquence:  all  comes  quietly,  complacently—shall  we  not  say,
20    conclusively? . . . . . . It is very truly remarked in the publishers’ preface, that the book
‘must be read and re-read to be fully appreciated.’ And we cannot be saying too much
when we earnestly advise all teachers, all parents—all whose office it is to utter before
the public—of the value of these most profound suggestions. Is not all that truly treats
of education precious? Ah! there are so many young human beings whose natures
25    remain fallow, for the want of true views on this subject, that one can hardly over-value
what tends to throw clear light upon it.





30    March 8, 1847


The Poor of Scotland


    In  the  rural  and  more  extreme  districts  of  Scotland,  there  is  also  prodigious destitution and scarcity of food! As far as the mere starvation is concerned, the direct
35    cause is the same as in Ireland, viz: the failure of the potato crop. To help relieve that distress is a work of such evident benevolence that we can hardly suppose any necessity for ‘argument’ about it to exist. ‘‘To those,’’ says the address of the Philadelphia committee of Scots, to collect such relief; ‘‘To those in whose veins runs the Scottish blood, nothing need be said. The call that comes from the land of the
40    broom and heather must make their spirits leap with a filial piety, and fill their hands with gifts worthy to be sent from the children of auld Scotia to their brethren at home. How sad to think that the once cheerful ingle sides are now the places of silent suffering, and that the Scottish mother has not a bannock to break among her children, while we, in this land of plenty, are fed upon the finest of the wheat.’’ . . . . . . . . . . . . 
45    Our liberal hearts of Brooklyn will remember, in this connection, the concert at  the N. Y. Tabernacle, to-night (8th)—and we hope will likewise bear future similar efforts freshly in their minds.

  	219




March 9, 1847


Honor to Literature!


    In the old hemisphere, there are some world-famed piles of yet-entire architecture, which—though passed upon by ‘public opinion’ as complete—were intended by their	5 projectors to form but parts of a still more stupendous design. We could not help think- ing, as analogous to the structures we have mentioned, the book D’Israeli’s Amenities of literature—that standard even of our bookish time; (Harpers pub., fourth Am. edition.)
It seems to have been—indeed was—the intention of the author to have made a com- plete history of literature—and the after circumstances which prevented the fulfilment  10 of  that  intention,  painful  enough  in  themselves,  are  far  more  painful  when  it  is considered what the world has lost through them. But even what the world has lost, makes perhaps more valuable what is left of the treasure. . . . . . . The ‘Amenities’ commence with the dawn of the intellectual light in Britain, as far as anything about it
is known—with the Druidical institutions.—And the after pages show the deep re-  15
search of the writer—his enthusiastic love of his subject—his faculty of order, too—for
the whole chain is in consistent and harmonious connection. While reading the book,
one cannot help being struck with how much the world is indebted to literature, and
literary men! how nearly all that has advanced humanity has been advanced by them!
how they have been the conservators of that depth of virtue which consists not in  20
abstractions, but in realities! how the fires of good impulses which seemed to have gone
out, in many and many an age in the past, have secretly been cherished by them, and
opened again at the first fair chance! how the pleasant things of life have been scattered,
and the sorrows of life ameliorated, and the roughness of life smoothed, and manliness
encouraged, and meanness rebuked, by them! Through the long dreary stretch of  25
periods which the lover of his race fain would turn from, the silver rein of literature
alone, and what it carries with it, sparkle like a brook athwart a barren moor. . . . . . . . . 
Such reflections teaches this book: and if it had not, though it has, manifold merits, that
would entitle it to the good will of all who duly appreciate and ‘revere the humanities.’
30



March 10, 1847
Something about Physiology and Phrenology	35

    That the study of physiology is good, admits not of denial. And if one proceed on the  rule of taking what is proved, and not confining himself too exclusively to any favorite dogma in science, (because there really is ‘something’ in almost all the doc- trines, however new, that come up—though a danger is in letting them engross one to  40 the injury of other, perhaps higher claims,) there can be no harm, but probably much good, in pursuing the study of phrenology. It is easy for the superficial to ridicule the new, or the profound—and indeed, the fanaticism of novices is always fair game; but
the deliberate man will not be turned aside from the even tenor of his course of inquiry after  truth,  by  either  extreme. . . . . . .  Among  the  most  persevering  workers  in  45 phrenology in this country must certainly be reckoned the two Fowlers and Mr. Wells, among whose publications are the following:

220	  


PHYSIOLOGY, ANIMAL  AND MENTAL, applied to the preservation and restoration of health of body and power of mind. By O. S. Fowler. Pub. by Fowler and Wells, 131 Nassau st. N. Y.

MEMORY,  AND  INTELLECTUAL IMPROVEMENT, applied to self-education and juvenile instruc- tion. Same address.

5		The first of these is of those works on health, and the means of preserving or retrieving it, which are always opportune, and so to all persons. The second is an application of phrenology to education, both that of individuals towards themselves, and of teachers, &c., toward their pupils.

10


March 10, 1847
Education—Brooklyn Teachers, and the Taught—
Public School No. 6
15
    At the polite invitation of the trustees, we went up to the Baltic street public school, and spent a part of the morning there on Tuesday, (9th.) In the male depart- ment, Mr. Estabrook, the principal, has 173 pupils—which are far more than the room will accommodate with any thing like comfort. The boys have accordingly to crowd
20    together—thus annoying them, and the teachers too. In the whole building there are about 600 pupils—and no one can visit that growing and populous neighborhood without granting the imperative necessity of a very much larger building, and ampler accommodations. We believe, indeed, that the construction of such accommodations is already planned out, or that steps are in progress to have them begun. And we hope
25    there will be no niggardliness about it; for such a large populous district as no. 6, (ought it not to be divided?) must have a school edifice worthy of itself. Besides, the most liberal policy is truly the cheapest in such matters. . . . . . The boys of the senior class in no. 6 evinced considerable proficiency in grammatical knowledge; and we were particularly pleased with their reading; and also their state of forwardness in
30    other studies. Two lads, one named Wickett, the other Day, evinced the possession of natural faculties that their friends would do well to cultivate. A little fellow named Raymond spoke a ‘piece’ handsomely; and there were also other pupils deserving credit. . . . . . The system of government in no. 6 is mild and rational—which always tells its own story against the absurd old plan of ruling schools by corporeal fear. We
35    hope to see the day when a teacher who denies the superiority of ‘moral suasion,’ and sticks to his ratans and ferules, will be looked upon as a medical man would look on a contemner of inoculation, or a denier of the circulation of the blood. . . . . . In the primary in the basement were nearly 300 fresh little beings, a goodly part of the ‘future men and women’ of the land.
40		In continuation of the strain of former remarks on teaching and teachers, we must not omit to mention an important particular as to a child’s learning, and that is, good school books. If parents and school officers were as well acquainted as teachers are with but half the difficulties labored under, from the want of proper books, and a little scientific apparatus, they would surely never be backward in procuring these means
45    for improvement. Any one can see that an axe would be a very improper instrument to

  	221


mow grass, and a shovel as a tool to heap it together. But these implements, if used as we have supposed, would not be much more inadequate than some books which are not unfrequently found in our schools. Another great bar to advancement at school is the irregular manner in which many children are allowed by their parents to attend.
This is one of the most provoking evils of a teacher ’s avocation. If a scholar is kept at	5 home two or three days every now and then, much of his improvement is sacrificed. What would you think of a young person who should be allowed to eat his meals regularly and heartily three or four days; and then be forced to abstain for three or four days? Could he grow? or would the bodily organs, receiving their nutriment in that hap-hazard manner, continue to strengthen, and perform their proper functions? Let  10 us tell you, parent, that the minds of young pupils require to be fed and attended to regularly, just as much as their bodies. The process of educating the young is a chain of many delicate links, and none may be broken with impunity; and if one is wanting here and there, the strength and utility of the whole is more or less destroyed.
And as there are few employments more useful than that of teacher, there are few  15
more difficult. And the station of a teacher is frequently rendered not the less annoying
to his peace, by the conduct of those who occasionally give him to be informed that
they understand his business better than he does himself. If a man unacquainted with
building, should presume to advise and correct a master carpenter or mason, he would
be considered as intrusive and vain. But every one thinks himself qualified to aid a  20
school teacher with directions. A teacher lies open to much causeless blame from many
quarters. Every one feels empowered to sit upon trial in his case.—He is either too
strict or too easy; he requires too hard lessons from his pupils, or he does not require
enough. He is too stiff, or else he makes himself too free; with a dozen other things—
rocks, on some of which it is determined he shall split. In the midst of discouragements  25
like these, his safest course appears to be to attempt performing his duties in a manner
to satisfy his own conscience and best judgment. . . . . . . Candor, at the same time,
compels us to admit that it is seldom a teacher is really without some fault or other.
This springs from the very nature of the business itself. To be a good teacher requires
great and long experience; a full stock of knowledge, and a fine delicate tact in discrim-  30
inating one kind of character from another. It is a high and arduous station—that of
teaching. It is far, far more than going through the mere forms of hearing lessons. It
needs the clear eye, and the steady hand. It needs that fine and exquisite judgment of
human nature, which enables its possessor to know the right way of going to work
with all the various and different kinds of tempers and dispositions. The duties of  35
teaching, we will add, should be entered into not for money merely, but with a sense of
its responsibility, its solemn obligations, and its lasting influence on those taught.





March 10, 1847

40

‘Dunigan’s Home Library’


    This series of works, (to which we have once before alluded) involves stories of a Roman catholic tendency. They are published in a small form, but of special excellence  45 in  their  typographical  character—forming  handsome  vols.  for  the  centre  table  or library. We observe among the contributors the name of Dr. Charles Constantine Pise,
    
222	  


and others whose standing even in the literary world is by no means of an ordinary rank. Besides the works we have already noticed in the ‘Home library’ there are ‘Father Felix, a tale: by the author of Mora Carmody, &c.’—And ‘Zenosius, the pilgrim-convert, by Dr. Pise.’ These works espouse with zeal the cause of Roman catholicism, and will
5    undoubtedly obtain a large circulation among the people of that belief. (Dunigan, publisher and bookseller, 151 Fulton st. N. Y.)





10    March 10, 1847


Relief to the Land of Burns!


We are sincerely anxious that Brooklyn should do something for the relief of
Scotland, too! The proper peasantry there are in a deplorable state: the misery, not as
15    extensive, of course, as in Ireland, but as intense. Let every rich man in Brooklyn who
has sympathy with suffering, give handsomely to this object too. . . . . . . We append
the ‘‘Cry of Scotland’’ written by Mr. Darlington, and sung at the late concert for
Scottish relief at the N. Y. Tabernacle:
[‘‘Cry of Scotland’’ deleted—32 ll.]
20



March 11, 1847

25	The Opinions of Washington and Jefferson on an  Important Point

    Washington and Jefferson, instead of claiming a constitutional right to engraft slavery on free territory, looked with anxious solicitude to the period when even the
30    soil of the slave states should become free, as has actually occurred in New York. Mr.
Jefferson had contemplated the insertion of a section for prospective emancipation, in
the slave laws of Virginia. But being absent in France when the time of action came, he
excuses those who omitted the saving clause, as follows:
‘‘Of the two commissioners who had concerted the amendatory clause for the gradual
35    emancipation of slaves, Mr. Wythe could not be present; he and Mr. Jefferson were absent
on the legation to France.’’ Those who were present, he adds, ‘‘saw that the moment of
doing it with success, was not arrived, and that an unsuccessful effort, as too often
happens, would only rivet still closer the chains of bondage, and retard the moment of
delivery to this oppressed description of men. What a stupendous, what an incom-
40    prehensible machine is man! who can endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment, and
death itself, in vindication of his own liberty, and, the next moment, be deaf to all those
motives whose power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow man a
bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he
rose in rebellion to oppose! But we must wait with patience the workings of an
45    overruling Providence, and hope that that is preparing the deliverance of our suffering
brethren. When the measure of their tears shall be full, when their groans shall have
involved heaven itself in darkness, doubtless, a God of Justice will awaken to their

  	223


distress, and by diffusing light and liberty among their oppressors, or, at length, by his exterminating thunder, manifest his attention to the things of this world, and that they are not left to the guidance of a blind fatality.’’—Jefferson’s writings.
    This is the language of Jefferson, the great apostle of liberty, and clearly shows that instead of claiming a constitutional right, as Mr. Calhoun does, to engraft slavery on all    5 new and free territory which might be acquired, he looked with hope to the time when
the slave states should be free states. Mr. Jefferson was no doubt anxious that the time should arrive when the words which he put forth in the declaration of independence,
‘‘that all men are born free and equal,’’ should be as true in fact as self-evident in theory. In a letter of Gen. Washington, showing why lands were more valuable in  10
Pennsylvania than in Virginia and Maryland, he uses the following language:
‘‘Because there are laws in Pennsylvania for the gradual abolition of slavery,
which neither of the states of Virginia or Maryland have at present, but which nothing
is more certain than that they must have, and at a period not remote.’’
This shows that the father of his country, instead of looking to the propagation of  15
slavery in new and free territory, confidently predicted its removal even from the slave
states. In 1784, the subject of a temporary government for the western territory was
before congress, and in a report made by Mr. Jefferson, the sentiment afterwards
engrafted upon the ordinance of 1787, is given in the following words:
‘‘That after the year 1800 of the christian era, there shall be neither slavery nor  20
involuntary servitude in any of the said states, otherwise than in the punishment of
crimes, whereof the party shall have been convicted to have been personally guilty.’’
The fathers of the republic, even in slave states, were in favor of the principles of
the Wilmot proviso.
25




March 12, 1847


[Book Notices]
30

THE  LIFE  OF CHRIST, in the words of the Evangelists. A complete harmony of the Gospel history of our Saviour.—For the use of young persons. Illustrated with engravings after Chapman and others, by Adams. Harpers, pub. 82 Cliff street, N. Y.
    In looking over such a book as this, one is impressed with the interest, even as a narrative, and apart from its sacred character, of the history of ‘him who spake as  35 never man spake.’ It is indeed a book for the young; and its typographical appearance
is of the neatest description.

LIFE   AND VOYAGES  OF  CHRISTOPHER  COLUMBUS. By Washington Irving. [Abridged by the same.] Including the author’s visit to Palos. With a portrait, map, and other illustrations.  40
Harpers, N. Y.
This new edition of a work which, in its more ample form, has become one of the
standards of the English literature, comes acceptably as a reader for the general mass, a
text book for schools, or a member of the selected library. Our poor commendation is
not needed for any writings of such a man as Irving. . . . . The life of Columbus should  45
be read by every American young man and woman. And for most of them, this is
probably the best form in which it can reach them.

224	  


MARRIAGE: its history and ceremonies, &c. By L. N. Fowler. Fowlers & Wells, pub. 131 Nassau st. N. Y.
    The verdant prudishness has passed away, which would be offended at any discussion—in the plain, comprehensive, and perfectly decorous style of this book—of
5    the subject which it treats on.




March 13, 1847
10
Shall We Promulge the Noble Temperance Reform, by Moral  Means, or by Stringent Laws?

Our Brooklyn Eagle must have been widely misunderstood by its readers, if they
15    are not aware forthwith, what will be our prompt answer to the question in the fore-
going headline. In achieving great moral reforms, we have very little faith in statutes.
Of course statutes must be made to check the vicious, the thievish, the oppressive,
from violating the physical rights of others. All rights must be guarded. But in his
moral and mental capacity, man is the sovereign of his individual self. And if that
20    phrase is not expressive enough, we mean to say that in matters which do not plainly
contravene the legal rights of fellow citizens, the law has no business to interfere
except in one or two instances—and those only by sufferance. . . . . . . The miserable
effect of all efforts to legislate men into religion and virtue, fill the pages of history, and
furnish some of their blackest and most horrid items. Moreover, we do take exception
25    to the ferocious way in which a portion of the advocates of temperance, (among whom
we feel warranted in enroling this journal,) pursue what they consider their duty. In
the Suffolk Democrat, published at Huntington, L. I., we find an abstract of a temper-
ance meeting at that place, where and when the following suggestions were broached:

‘‘The Rev. Mr. McDougall, although professing to believe in the force of moral  suasion,
30    recommends that the friends of temperance exert their influence ‘in their daily business.’ This,
we presume, is in obedience to the resolution adopted by the state temperance  convention,
calling  upon all temperance men to deal with no one who had not signed the pledge.
‘‘The Rev. Mr. Sanford wished ‘that every rum-seller were haggard—so haggard  that he
would startle the beasts of the field—that the dogs would howl after him—that he carried about
35    him the signs that he was leagued with hell—that he had the cloven-foot—that he had on his
forehead the words: I am leagued with hell—and my business is to destroy the souls of men.’
‘‘The speech of the Rev. Moses Scudder was that of an incendiary, and recommended in so
many words the burning down of the tavern-keeper ’s house. The curses he called down upon
the  tavern-keeper ’s head were awful beyond description.’’

40		Now there are different kinds of intemperance; and for our part we think even the crime of intoxication not so heinous as this wholesale and malignant denunciation of a class of society. It may be casting out devils—but it calls in the aid of the prince of devils, for that purpose. Who cannot win men to goodness by vile phrases, and by spiteful words. Spread out the beauty of temperance; point the novice to him who has
45    pursued  the  path  of  the  drunkard—the  miserable—overthrown—disgraced  one.
Plead, if you will, with all the ministers to such a state of things. But give us no abuse,
and angry blackguardism. Temperance is really injured more by certain fanatical declaimers,
than by those whom they so bitterly denounce.

  	225




March 13, 1847


[The Singers Hutchinsons]


Our  N.  Y.  contemporary  the  Globe,  in  speaking  of  the  singers  Hutchinsons,
‘‘suspects they are rather whiggish in their politics.’’ We happen to know that this is not	5
the case. The H’s. are true sons of the old granite state; they are democrats.





March 15, 1847

10
Andrew Jackson


    To-day is the anniversary of the birth of Andrew Jackson, (15th March, 1767.) In some particulars, the democracy of this country—indeed the freemen of the whole world—have more reason to endear to themselves the character of Andrew Jackson,  15 than of any other apostle in the great cause of political reform. WASHINGTON, in his serene strength and god-like calmness, moved amid the elements of the circumstances
of his time, with a steady majesty which made all spectators involuntarily yield to him the meed of honor and august virtue. JEFFERSON —with his searchingly philosophical mind,  and  his  eye  that  cut  like  a  scymetar  through  the  flimsy covering  of  mere  20 precedent and law—was in democracy and politics somewhat as that Corsican ‘child
of destiny’ amid the thrones of Europe. But JACKSON —the clear-sighted, staunch- hearted, simple-mannered one—his it was to breast with a great will, such waves of aroused interest, of seeming public opinion, as try mortal courage to their utmost en- durance! His it was to cast his glance over the field, to ponder well, to take in not only  25 the bearings of the present, but the future, and then to adopt that FIXED WILL around which faction howled in vain, and against whom all the fierce storms of baffled interest were ineffectual. The glorious, grand old man! The world owes him a mighty gratitude
for the lesson of that strength of mind—which we have far too little of among our politicians. No fearer of parties—even of his own—was this truly sublime being! High  30 above the vulgar desire to be popular and to please, he entrenched himself on his deliberate understanding of right and the country’s truest interests, and there he stood.
Let our American politicians ponder well on the moral of the incidents of that life!

35


March 15, 1847
Hazlitt’s Napoleon—Wiley & Putnam’s Reprint
40
    Perhaps  men  have  looked  at  the  old  French  revolution,  through  the  eyes  of English toryism, about long enough! The time seems to be arriving when the whole matter will be viewed in its true light; when the specious eloquence of the declaimers who received office and pay from royalty for their declamation—when the false dread
of encouraging popular licence—when the perplexing cloud raised by the undoubted  45 horror in the revolution itself—all shall give way before a calm, clear view of the whole field, and so justice be meted out to all who played in that great drama, on that mighty stage. This time may not be forthwith; but we have too great faith in the penetrating,

226	  


analytical power of the free inquiry which characterises our age, not to rest in full confidence of its eventual coming. And it is such a work as the one whose name heads this article that will hasten that coming. A noble, grand work! a democratic work! Let every lover of the race before classes—every contemner of the rule of keeping men
5    ‘straight’ on the principle wherewith nurses frighten children by bugaboos up the chimney—every man who fears not the truth, (without which history is a prostitute,)— every encourager of the great rights of man—help promulge this book. It is a whole- some book for the young fresh life of our republic. It is a book for each growing man, who would not feed on the formal bigotry of the past—who would be unconservative.
10		Listen to the following remarks—fitting overture to a clarified statement of that bursting forth of outraged humanity which made the French revolution. Nor do they more than justice to the high mission of the pen—without which no great advance of right over wrong has ever yet been made in this world:
[Quotation omitted—31 1⁄2     ll.]
15	How plainly just—how lucid! . . . . . . Nor is the attempt to array some of the
reasons, opposed to the general cant wherewith writers talk of the French revolution,
less just or lucid. We hear of the ‘horrors’ of the French revolution: as if mere blotches
on the skin, an unsightly eruption athwart the face of a man, were more horrible than
the long, dreary deadness, the lethargy and decay, of the vital organs within—while
20    the blood should stagnate, and the veins and million nerves were forbidden their
power and functions. For thus it was with France—the revolution being the blotch—
the ages before it, tallying that dreary deadness. [Quotation omitted—53 ll.]
And shall we hear much longer the conservative sing-song (fruit, as we have
intimated, from the seeds of old English toryism) which overlooks all the broad and
25    deep things of that era, and what went before it, and simply appeals to our sympathies
for passing physical pain, not one tithe as intense and suffered by not one tithe as
many, as in the years before—merely because the latter was borne passively and
beneath the surface? We too dread the horrors of the sword and of violence—of
bloodshed, and a maddened people. But we would rather at this moment over every
30    kingdom on the continent of Europe, that the people should rise and enact the same
prodigious destructions as those of the French revolution, could they thus root out the
kingcraft and priestcraft which are annually dwindling down humanity there to a
lower and lower average—an appaling prospect ahead, for any one who thinks ahead!
Moreover, when it is observed how deeply the fangs of that kingcraft are fixed—and
35    how through-and-through the virus of that priestcraft is infused—it will make one
come nigh to think that only some such great retching of the social and political
structure can achieve the blessed consummation.




40
March 16, 1847



The Toils of a Newspaper


[Quotation omitted—24 ll.]
45	That the labors of an editor are hard enough, is an undoubted fact. But for our
part, we like them. There are many pleasures and gratifications in the position of an
editor.  Moreover  we  think  there  has  been  quite  too  much  of  this  cant  about  the
dreadful things concomitant with the ‘labors of a newspaper editor.’ The worst of it is,

  	227


not that the work is hard, but that, in this country, one man has to do so many things in the paper. Abroad, it is different: half a dozen editors are a small allowance for a well conducted daily journal. And one is apt to regret the having so much to do, here, because, in the multiplicity, each subject cannot be thoroughly done justice to. We would not give much however for a newspaper editor who is constantly grumbling at	5 and disliking his profession. The same rule indeed, may hold good in other matters. What would you think of a sculptor, or a painter, or a physician, who should be ever piercing the wounded air with bewailments of his hard lot?

10


March 16, 1847
Will Not the Same Rule Apply to Brooklyn?
15
    We observe that relief concerts are about to be given in Cincinnati, mainly for the relief of Scotland.—The Signal of that place, appealing to the amateurs of the city, has the following apposite quotation:
    ‘‘They stand convicted, each and all, of having in them the capacity of a good song—let them act at this juncture, in the spirit of that touching stanza of Burns:  20

‘‘ ‘Even then a wish, I mind its  power, A wish that to my latest  hour,
Shall  strangely heave my breast
That  I for poor auld Scotland’s sake,
Some  useful plan or book would make,	25
Or  sing a song at least!’ ’’





March 17, 1847

30
[Payne’s ‘‘Pictorial World’’]


    Among the embellished periodicals of the day, Payne’s Pictorial World, a London publication, may be ranked with the finest. The plates are of the most exquisite style of steel engraving; and moreover, are marked by great taste in the selection of subjects, in  35 the designs and outlines. ‘The Fisherman,’ in no. 2, is one of the best done engravings
of its size, we know. . . . . . [Details of an art competition to be held by Pictorial World
omitted—10 1⁄2     ll.]

40


March 18, 1847
The Ward Meetings To-Night—Parties in Brooklyn
45
We hope to have a goodly attendance at the democratic ward meetings to-night—
those meetings which will ‘set the ball a-rolling’ for the success of our municipal
candidates. Truly, the importance of these primary meetings is much underrated; they

228	  


are the fountains whence comes the goodness or badness of the larger volume in the future. Moreover, let the meetings to-night be characterised at every poll, by HARMONY  and  GOOD  FEELING!  for  there  is  never  any  thing  gained,  even  in politics, by the opposite of those qualities. . . . . . . . . . Democrats of Brooklyn! the day
5    is nigh when you will be called upon to work the city out of the hands of whiggery, into which it may now be said partially to be held! We are of those who think that the democratic party should stick to its own identity, and hold no communion or tampering with any other party, even to attain temporary advantages. We must have parties in this country; and the question is, Shall we go with the democratic? or shall we aid the
10    conservative—call it federal, whig, or by whatever of its various names you like?
These are the two great divisions. That all the movements and details of the democratic
organizations, are immaculate, we don’t pretend to say; but that true liberty could not
long exist in this country without our party, we do say. And it is important that it should
triumph in the local elections—notwithstanding we have specious arguers for a ‘no
15    party party’ among us. All such play into the hands of whiggery. . . . . . And we
reiterate with emphasis what we have said once before, that every one among us who
through discontent or any other motive, would mar the union of our ranks and nominations,
also plays into the hands of whiggery, and is probably their tool, whether he knows it
or not.
20




March 18, 1847

25


A Book for American Young Men

    Everitt’s Practical education and useful knowledge, (Harpers, pub.) is a book for every American young man! The best of it is, it holds a far higher tone than that of the ordinary cant about ‘the importance of knowledge,’ which makes an undoubted truth monotonous by presenting it in a commonplace manner. Edward Everitt, the writer,
30    combines in himself the knowledge of the perfectest abstract with the truest utilitarian.
This is a rare combination, and one which makes him capable of preparing such a
treatise on education as may add greatly to the few good works on that important
subject.

35



March 19, 1847


Political Knowledge


40		We were impressively struck with the remark of an intelligent acquaintance, in a street walk the other day: ‘‘How many,’’ said he, as we were talking of politicians,
‘‘how many, do you suppose, know the fundamental principles of our republic’s constitution?’’ The suggestion is not an inappropriate one. Of the prodigious number of persons to whom politics, political argument, and political expression, may be said
45    to be the principal business of their lives, how few indeed know the constitution! how few know any thing of the history of the government, or the difference in the codes of the states, and their altered laws!—And yet in this country, every politician should

  	229


possess such knowledge. How can a man presume to enlighten others, on subjects where he has himself not mastered the elements? It is true, every citizen entertains a general idea of the country—how the continent was originally made known to Europe by the adventurous spirit of one Columbus, (though whether that personage landed
on Long Island, or not, they cannot precisely say.)—how toward the later years of the	5
past century, our grandpapas had a quarrel with the British government, about some
tea  and  taxes—how,  Gen.  Washington  managed  to  get  the  better  of  the  imperial
armies, or rather prevented their getting the better of the Americans—how, (but exactly
how, they are oblivious as to,) a government was afterward formed—since when there
have been several presidents. Jefferson, Monroe, Gen. Jackson, Van Buren, Tyler, Polk,  10
and so on. But all this knowledge, (we respectfully submit,) is the barest sort of outline,
the naked ribs, of the full knowledge which an American politician should possess. He
should possess a far ampler store of facts and statistics. . . . . . Something of this sort
formed a portion of our reflections while looking over the following work:
15
The STATESMAN’S    MANUAL. The addresses and messages of the Presidents of the United States,
inaugural, annual and special, from 1789 to 1846; with a memoir of each of the Presidents, and a
history  of their administrations; also the constitution of the U. S. &c. Compiled  by  Edwin
Williams. Edward Walker, pub. 114 Fulton st., New  York.

    By him who aspires to reach the ‘height of the great argument’ of politics, these  20 things should be studied deeply and thoroughly. One has here the whole field before him, the links of the chain of the political history of these United States. And they are truly great, when one considers the interests they involve. Beginning at the very first address of Washington, they come down to the ‘war message’ of president Polk, in May last. Of course this is one of the sort of books, where all mere opinion, where all of  25 a partisan tinge, has no place.—All is made up of arbitrary facts, firm as iron, and not demanding any thing, even in the way of style, from the compiler. The name is a most appropriate one; it is indeed a Statesman’s Manual. We will add that the typographical execution is of lasting and excellent character.
30




March 19, 1847


Rules for Governing Children
35

    1.	Exercise your authority as seldom as possible, and instead of it, employ kind persuasion and deliberate reasoning; but, when you exercise it, make it irresistible.
    2.	Be careful how you threaten, but never lie. Threaten seldom, but never fail to execute. The parent who is open mouthed to threaten, and threatens hastily, but is irresolute to punish, and, when the child is not subdued by the first threat, repeats it  40 half a dozen times with a voice of increasing violence, and with many shakes and twitches of the little culprit, will certainly possess no authority.
    3.	Avoid tones and gestures expressive of agitation for trivial matters indicative of no depravity, and indicating only the heedlessness or forgetfulness of children, or perhaps nothing more than is common to all young animals, a love to use their limbs.  45
In all such cases the tones should be kind and persuasive, rather than authoritative;
and the severity, and even the gravity of authority should be reserved exclusively for

230	  


cases of disobedience, of depravity, or for the prevention of serious evil. A perpetual fretting at children for little things, will inevitably harden their hearts, and totally destroy parental influence and authority. There never was a fretting parent, who often threatened and seldom performed, that had a particle of efficient government.
5




March 19, 1847

10


Brooklyn Public School, 4th District

    This finely managed school—in a poorly constructed building—is to be made considerably more eligible by the addition of a few recitation rooms on the west end— on the finishing of which the boys’ school will be transferred to part of the building, hitherto occupied by the girls’ school. . . . . . We reiterate our advice of the other day,
15    that now is the time for buying half a dozen of the adjoining vacant lots, for this school.




20    March 20, 1847
That Observatory in Brooklyn Which We MUST Have—
Result of Bending the Mind to a Determined Object

25		In connection with the present most commendable project to establish an observa- tory in Brooklyn, it may be apropos for our Eagle to transcribe certain interesting particulars about the getting up of a similar institution in Cincinnati—wherein Prof. Mitchell played a prominent and noble part. We find these particulars in the Williamsburgh Morning Post. Prof. Mitchell, by a series of lectures, and appeals to the
30    citizens of Cincinnati, got a subscription opened, and some $25,000 subscribed on paper. When the collectors were called upon to glean the items together, they either could not or would not effect anything. Mr. Mitchell took the list himself—sallied forth with it, and succeeded in obtaining the whole sum excepting $500. It was then voted that he should be sent on a tour to Europe, for the purpose of visiting all the principal
35    observatories, and also of purchasing a telescope. On his return—we believe in ’42 or
’43—it was feared no site could be obtained for the observatory, but the personal
exertion and personal good luck of the professor accomplished even this object, with-
out a penny of outlay. Then, at a meeting of the subscribers, it was unanimously
resolved that John Quincy Adams should be invited to lay the first corner stone of the
40    building. On this mission the professor was, also, sent, and found the ‘‘old man
eloquent’’ at the falls of Niagara. Very unwilling to undertake a long journey and
unwilling, also, to lose an opportunity of advancing the cause of science, Mr. Adams
requested time to consider of it. Early next morning the professor walked forth to enjoy
a view of the ‘‘falls,’’ and, to his surprise, early as it was, there was Mr. A. before him.
45    ‘‘Well, professor,’’ exclaimed the old man, ‘‘your mission has deprived me of a night’s
rest in weighing and considering the reasons for and against my going.—Morning,
you see, has come and finds me still undecided.’’ ‘‘The readiest way to get rid of the

  	231


difficulty,’’ replied the professor, ‘‘is to determine to go with me at once.’’ ‘‘I will do so,’’ replied the old man, ‘‘and having accomplished the object, I will be content, even if I shall  not  have  strength  to  return.’’—Mr.  A.  went  accordingly,  and  never  was assembled such a multitude of people in Cincinnati as attended the ceremony. Funds poured in, the observatory was completed in a brief time, and is now in as prosperous	5 a condition as any institution in the union. The history of this institution is a striking illustration of the power of the human mind when vigorously directed to one object. Had it not been for professor Mitchell, Cincinnati might not have had an observatory
for centuries to come; and many years might have rolled round before the people of Brooklyn would have ‘thought of it,’ too. Nor is this narrative without a deep moral for  10 all  who  would  engage  in  enterprises  of  public  benevolence,  or  amelioration,  or knowledge—a  moral  to  brighten  the  path  before  them,  even  if  it  have  passing difficulties.

15



March 20, 1847


[Opera at Palmo’s]


Since ‘all the papers’ are giving testimony in reference to the way in which the  20
Italian opera, at Palmo’s, treats the press, B. E. thinks proper to bear witness to their
uniform courtesy and blandness toward his folks.






March 20, 1847

25


Works for Schools, and for Young People


    Honor to those who truly write for the young! say we. Because, although such a  30 field of one’s labors is worthy the highest talent, it is generally considered fitting to a third or fourth rate employment.—But to write well for the young, we reiterate, is worthy of the best literary genius. The Juvenile budget opened, (Harpers pub.) is a pleasing and moral collection of over forty sketches and tales from the writings of Dr. Aikin and Mrs. Barbauld. We like well to hear from publishers that there is a greater  35 and greater demand for this sort of books every year.
    Russell’s juvenile speaker comprises elementary rules and exercises in declamation, with a selection of pieces for practice. The author, Francis T. Russell, is not unknown to our Brooklyn public: his readings and elocutionary performances at the institute, have
given much pleasure to many of our citizens, during the past winter. In this ‘speaker ’  40 we particularly like the hints for the cultivation of the voice—as well as those for gesture.—The book (we notice amid its collection, Rev. Mr. Thayer ’s poem ‘Battle of
the Rio Grande,’ originally pub. in our Eagle,) should not only be introduced into our Brooklyn schools, but every Brooklyn divine, lawyer, and speaker in public should possess a copy. (Harpers.)	45
    Zumpt’s Latin grammar, corrected and enlarged by Dr. Anthon, is just published by the Harpers, and can be had at our Brooklyn bookstores. Judicious teachers tell us that
    
232	  


this is an unsurpassed grammar; and the name of its American editor, we presume, is warrant enough therefor.




5
March 20, 1847



[The Number of States]


The opening of the thirtieth congress will witness a representation from thirty
10    states. How many will we send to the fortieth?





March 22, 1847
15



Beauties of Residing in New York City:
by One Who Knows ’Em


Hear what the N. Y. Mirror saith, in its editorial remarks on a ‘clean street party,’
20    which it invokes the getting up of, in the Gomorrah over the river. ‘‘The streets,’’ it
says, meaning those of N. Y., ‘‘are badly lighted, the landing-places of steamboats are
unsafe, filthy and inconvenient; the docks are in a wretched condition; the streets are
badly paved; the houses of citizens are plundered in the night; little ragged children
swarm the public thoroughfares with brooms in their hands, soliciting pennies from
25    travellers for clearing a passage for them through a black sea of mud, and yet the
expenditure of the city for the past year was $1,723,549 47.’’ [Remainder of quotation
omitted.—16 ll.]




30
March 22, 1847



[Book Notices]


We observe that the Eclectic commentary on the Bible, well known among theologi-
35    cal readers as the late popular publication of the London religious tract society, has an
agency and sale at 118 Nassau st. N. Y., Mr. Robert T. Shannon. This commentary is
from the works of Henry, Scott, and over a hundred other writers; it is considered by
good judges to embody the greatest mass of information, explanatory and illustrative,
yet put in book form on the high theme whereof it treats.
40	Dr. Kitchener ’s ‘‘Directions for invigorating and prolonging life; or, invalid’s oracle,
containing peptic precepts, pointing out agreeable and effectual methods to prevent
and relieve indigestion, and to strengthen and regulate the action of the stomach and
bowels,’’ has been just issued, (another edition of it,) by the Harpers. As far as a book
can aid in making one wholesome, this does well; the rules of health laid down in it
45    are consistent with common sense.
Number 42 of Virtue’s illustrated family Bible contains a landscape and group view,
‘Arab tent near Mt. Tabor,’ put forth in the usual fine style of the plates of this work.
The volume is now handsomely advanced in its issue.

  	233


    The same publishers have also issued a neat cheap edition of James’s Castle of Ehrenstein. Mr. James seems to write books rapidly on the principle that a thin atten- dance allows people to come rapidly out of church, after the benediction.

5



March 22, 1847


Dombey and Son


    Wiley & Putnam have issued the first part of this work—the five nos. from the  10 birth of ‘little Paul’ to his death—in one volume, uniform with their handsomely printed library editions of works. The first part may be said to form a sort of novel in itself—for it is the artistically complete life of one of Dickens’s best drawn and most consistently sustained characters.
15




March 23, 1847


[Opera Review]
20

    The Barber of Seville, as performed by the present Italian opera co. in N. Y. does not appear to be at all to the taste of our best judging musicians—probably on account of the  inefficient manner  in  which  some  of  the  characters  are  sustained.  One  good exchange could certainly be made, if Benedetti would take the part Signor Patti at
present fills; it would gratify all, and probably ensure a second attendance. Beneven-  25 tano as the barber, does very well—better than might be expected from one with so heavy a voice and manner. His opening song is the gem of the performance, and is given with ease and spirit; moreover, his voice improves on acquaintance, and when singing in chorus, comes in like some high toned instrument filling out and sustaining
the different parts. Although this production of Rossini’s is familiar, it is nevertheless  30 always  heard  with  pleasure:  the  instrumentation  is  beautiful,  and  has  that  clean, though rather old fashioned character, in which his delicate ideas produce effect, and
not any overpowering crash of instruments. Sanquirico, as usual, is full of fun, and submits to the shaving operation to the infinite gratification of all concerned, while Pico  does  every  thing  in  her  own  attractive  manner  so  that  one  could  easily  35 sympathize with her guardian in his chagrin at her loss.





March 23, 1847

40
[Combe’s ‘‘Physiology’’]


COMBE’S    PHYSIOLOGY.—Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nassau st. New York.
It is not too much to say, that by far the greater part of the bodily and mental ills
which afflict humanity are the result of the ignorance of the commonest laws of human  45
physiology.  The  vulgar  look  upon  disease  and  health,  as  blessed  or  unblessed
accidents: they mourn over the first as a ‘visitation of Providence,’ and jeopardise the
second in a spirit of blind heedlessness and stupidity. Combe’s work on physiology—

234	  


or something with the same scope—ought to be in every family—ought particularly to be read by every young person, of either sex.




5
March 24, 1847



Teaching Teachers


We are glad to know that a ‘normal institute’ is to be opened in this city, at the
10    lyceum in Washington st., in the early part of May ensuing. It is to be under the tui-
tion of Albert D. Wright as principal, and eight other professors and teachers. We shall
have a good deal more to say about this commendable project, by and by.




15
March 25, 1847



‘‘Improved Presses’’


Under this head, a milliner in New York advertises a new kind of corsets, that
20    ‘‘wind up with a windlass.’’





March 27, 1847
25


[Book Review]


THE   CONSTITUTIONAL  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND, from the accession of Henry 7th to the death of George 2d. By Henry Hallam, author of ‘‘Europe during the middle ages,’’ &c. From the fifth London edition. Harpers, N. Y.
30		A great time for England—for the civilized world—was that which lay in the arms of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries! Then it was that the buds swelled which have since burst in the bloom of a better freedom for man and mind—the precursor, haply, of a still higher and wider freedom in the future. The reigns of the last Henrys, and the lioness Elizabeth—the doings of those spawn of tyranny and
35    bigotry the Stewarts—the whirlwind and jar of Cromwell—the ‘long parliament’—the chaotic dawn and temporary success of English liberty—the restoration of the most unprincipled and effeminate of monarchs—then James 2d and his sternly rebuked assumptions—the succession of William and Mary—the subsequent reigns of Anne, George 1st, and George 2d—high subjects these for a historical and constitutional
40    writer, truly! Indeed, none are higher. The history of the civilized world does not offer a richer field, than that run of years, incidents, and personages we have just mentioned—comprehensively and which are thoroughly grappled with in this book. Such  a  book,  too,  is  stout  and  wholesome  reading  for  the  thoughtful  student  of
‘philosophy  teaching  by  example.’  . . . . . . . . . . . .  This  edition  has  improvements
45    on and additions to all the former editions. It is well printed, with good paper and
clean type.

  	235




March 29, 1847


Mind Your Stops


    Our correspondent who complains of the hills of dirt in Prince and Gold streets, may be true enough in the statement, but is terribly out in his commas and semicolons.	5
We recommend the following ‘paragraph with a moral’ on that subject. It is from an old schoolboy exercise:

    ‘‘Caesar entered on his head, his helmet on his feet, armed sandals upon his brow, there was a cloud in his right hand, his faithful sword in his eye; an angry glare saying nothing, he sat down.’’  10





March 29, 1847


One of the Last Relics of Bigotry	15


The present interpretation of the law of libel.





March 29, 1847

20

[Book Notices]


    ‘Great events, described by distinguished historians, chroniclers, and other writers: collected and in part translated by Francis Lieber,’ (Harpers, pub.) is a work whose  25 character may be best learned from the following lines of the compiler himself: ‘‘One
of the most effective means,’’ says he, ‘‘of forming a strong character, awakening generous impulses, and invigorating the mind for future action, is, to encourage an early familiarity with great events, and with those prominent men, whose bold deeds
or persevering exertions were crowned with lasting effects, or whose loftiness of  30
purpose renders them inspiring examples.’’ . . . . . The book treats of such themes as
the death of Socrates, Martin Luther ’s appearance at Worms, the surrender of Rhodes,
the sack of Rome, and so on. It has a glossary and index.
‘The Juvenile budget re-opened, being further selections from the writings of Dr. John
Aikin,’ (Harpers, pub.) contains about forty short sketches written in easy familiar  35
style, for the reading of young persons. They are of a moral cast, and touch on themes
full of interest to the young—a good little book for the ‘boys’ and girls’ library’.





April 1, 1847

40

Books for Youth, of Either Sex


    We are well pleased with a couple of little works, (pub. by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, Boston,) giving suggestions, warnings, &c. to the young. ‘How to be a Lady,’ has thirty  45 chapters on the various subjects appertaining to moral, bodily, and mental health; on
    
236	  


piety—behaviour at school, at table, and in company—habits—knowledge of house- hold affairs—education of the body—indolence—amusements—conversation— government of the tongue, etc. etc. [Quotation omitted—34 ll.]
‘How to be a Man,’ by the same author, Mr. Newcomb, gives the like suggestions to
5    boys as the other does to girls. We particularly approve the tone of the book—so clear,
so mild, so persuasive to good, and to real manliness. We shall make liberal extracts, in
due time, for the benefit of our youthful readers.
‘The Traveller; or wonders of nature,’ (M. W. Dodd, brick chapel, N. Y.) treats of
mountains,  volcanoes,  precipices,  caverns,  earthquakes,  deserts,  rivers,  cataracts,
10    whirlpools, whirlwinds, and waterspouts. [Quotation omitted—9 ll.]





April 2, 1847
15


Notices of New Books


THE   PRE-ADAMITE   EARTH: contributions to theological science. By John Harris,  D.D., president of Cheshunt college, author of the ‘Great teacher,’ &c. Pub. by Gould, Kendall and Lincoln, Boston.
20		Great and profound questions, like those treated of in this work, are far from fit subjects of off-hand criticism. We may safely say, however, that Mr. Harris writes in a manner of combined serenity and earnestness, and that his book cannot but be interesting to all who have a taste for investigating those matters—particularly the members of the priestly office. The book is well printed—and, though complete in
25    itself, is intended to be the first of a series, which the author will continue at his leisure.

Hazlitt’s NAPOLEON. Wiley & Putnam.
This masterpiece of style, earnestness, clearness, and spirit—this best, (to our
notion,) of all the histories of the great ‘soldier of fortune’—is now published complete
30    by Wiley & Putnam in the excellent manner of their ‘library of select reading.’ We have
on a former occasion expressed, more fully, our opinions of the democracy of this work.

Posthumous and other POEMS  by Charlotte Elizabeth. M. W. Dodd, N. Y. at the brick chapel, opposite the park.
35		The lady of whose latest writings—with some former ones—this is a collection, is in a double sense well known to thousands of American readers, too. The pieces in the collection are prepared by the husband of the deceased lady—and comprise some that are specially beautiful. [Extract omitted—26 ll.]

40    BOOK OF THE  FEET; a history of boots and shoes. W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, N. Y.
This prettily printed affair has a much wider and more entertaining scope than
one might imagine. It gives biographies of ‘eminent’ shoemakers, including Roger
Sherman, Gideon Lee, and Bloomfield the poet; with anecdotes, directions in reference
to corns, and so on.
45
THE   CHRISTIAN’S  DAILY  TREASURY; a religious exercise for every day in the year.  By Ebenezer  Temple,  Rochford  Essex.  From  the  second  revised  London  edition.— Gould, Kendall, & Lincoln, 57 Washington st. Boston.

  	237


    Such a work as this is unquestionably useful in one particular, at all events—that of tending to make religious exercises a daily business. Indeed, even in a worldly point of view, the benefit of devotional reading, every day, seems to us beyond cavil. It strengthens, even while it mildens, the character; it takes the attention off, for a while
at least, from those sordid and too often demoralizing cares, which fill up the minds of	5
most men. . . . . . The ‘Treasury’ has good serious matter in it—enough, indeed, to last
‘every day in the year.’

ANASTASIUS.  Harpers, 82 Cliff st. N. Y.
It may almost be assumed by this time that Anastasius is one of the standards of  10
English literature. It is serviceable as giving a vivid idea of the manners and customs
among the Greeks. Two vols., well printed.

THE    KING’S   HIGHWAY.  By G. P. R. James. Harpers, N. Y.
We do not like the involved, wiry style of this author at all. If he wrote but little, it  15
would be too much; and so he writes too much, in a double sense.




April 2, 1847	20
Where the Great Stretch of Power Must Be Wielded

    It is to us a cheering and grand idea, that the agricultural and domestic west must eventually outtopple in means, extent and political power, all the rest of this republic—  25 and carry sway in what it listeth. The boundless democratic free west!—We love well
to contemplate it, and to think of its future, and to think how widely it will minister to human happiness and rational liberty. The slave states are confessedly either station- ary, or on a very slow progress, or in an actual decline. The Atlantic states, with a rush
after wealth, and the spread among them of effeminating luxuries, need a balance  30 wheel like that furnished by the agricultural sections of the west. Moreover in the connection, it must not be forgotten that New York too, has in herself this balance wheel: a glance at the census will show an unrivalled productiveness and fertility in
her grain-growing and other agricultural departments. Her broad interior, and the line toward the lakes, are like unto Mississippi valley in very many particulars. [Quoted  35
‘‘summary of the growth of the western states’’ omitted—32 ll.]





April 2, 1847

40

Warmth of Affection and
Manner toward Children


    There is a good deal of truth in the following extract on the manner of treating  45 children. Many persons suppose it necessary to preserve toward the young, in their families, an aspect of dignity and coldness; thus, as they imagine, repelling undue liberties,  familiarity,  or  disobedience.  But  really  one  gets  more  from  a  child  by
    
238	  


developing the latter ’s affections—of which all children have an ample store, though they often remain hidden:

    ‘‘Above all mistakes is that of supposing that the better nature of the child is to be drawn out, and raised into the strength which we should desire to see in the man, by making him pass
5    through a cold and cheerless youth. The very contrary is the case. A system of petty restraints
and privations, of severe looks and incessant chidings, only results in depraving the feeling and
perverting the reason of a young person. He is, in such circumstances, entirely out of harmony
with nature. He is like a flower, which requires light, and warmth, placed in a cold cellar, where
it never can acquire its proper proportions, or color, or vigor. It is quite impossible that a child so
10    treated, can ever attain to the proper characteristics of a well constituted man or  woman.’’




April 3, 1847
15
Honor to the Hero! The Battle of Buena Vista—
Bright among the Brightest Emanations of American Glory

We might, not improperly, (indeed in some points it would be better to do so,) give
20    the following brief string of dispatches and letters, without a word of comment. And
yet  we  cannot  refrain  from  such  comment—from  throwing  our  little  mite  in  the
rushing flow of a nation’s thanks to the noblest of living generals, and the bravest of
armies! The following short letters, too, form one of those few grand histories written
in a single page, involving an event so august that the bookman’s art but mars, by the
25    addition of mere style and rounded periods, its great proportions! They will live—this
battle, and the victor in it—on the enduring records of our republic and among the
favorite and most turned to of all! Of the prodigiousness of the triumph, no further
proofs are necessary than three very simple, crispy, laconic ones; 1st the Mexican
leader ’s summons to surrender—2d, the three line answer of the American general—
30    3d, the result. A linked trinity, this, which stands at least on as high a platform as the
classic ‘‘Veni, vidi, vici,’’ of the Latin hero.
Five to one! only think of it! And the larger number the flower of their nation,
splendidly appointed, swelling with elated thoughts, and spurred on by the thought of
vengeance for former defeats! And the smaller cut off from all communication with
35    their fellows, unused to military obedience, lately familiarized with discipline, and
pressed with the consciousness of such inferior strength. And to achieve a complete
triumph under these circumstances! Do we say too much, then, in uttering what is the
national utterance, ‘‘Honor to the Hero!’’ the Bold and True?
Then the modesty of the man, in the very hour of his triumph. War ’s annals
40    present no such brief, terse, comprehensive but unflorid, dispatches as those whereby
Gen. Taylor announces to the government his movements and his victories. Look at his
reply to Santa Anna’s summons; it is a bit of shaft-like, simple grandeur, that has no
equal!
Whatever may be said of the evil moral effects of war, it seems to us plain that
45    such events as this victory of Buena Vista, and our former victories in Mexico, must
elevate  the  true  self-respect  of  the  American  people  to  a  far  higher  point  than
heretofore. Because, with all the charge of vainglory made against us by foreigners, our

  	239


people do not hold that high-toned self-respect, becoming to such a great nation as ours really is. They do not seem to believe our first-class claims sufficiently proved; and though we are not of those who think that mere military superiority is by any means the  principal  part  of  such  proof,  it  cannot  be  denied  that  unsurpassed  brilliant
successes in war—and continued ones, too—go far toward lifting up that desirable	5 tone. Our naval victories in the last war with England, made a great revolution in the provincialness that had still lingered in the then new-fledged republic.
[Letters and dispatches omitted—118 ll.]

10



April 6, 1847


[Politics of the Editor of the ‘‘Eagle’’]


    The  Brooklyn  Advertiser  has  thought  proper,  for  some  time  past,  to  intimate  15 through its columns that we have been a whig: and yesterday (5th) it published the following article:

    ‘‘POLITICS   OF  THE  EDITOR OF  THE  EAGLE.—Since the editor of the Eagle has commenced the way of asking questions we would just like to know what the said editor was in politics in the summer of 1841? Tell now candidly Mr. W. W.! Report has said that you were a whig; and if we  20 are wrong in believing pretty fair proofs of that report, why we would like to know it and will then do you justice. And while he is about it let the editor tell us whether he did not bitterly oppose
the first nomination of Silas Wright. So much for the past; when that is answered we will come down to a later period.’’

Well: if it is a matter of such intense curiosity to the Advertiser to be enlightened  25
on a subject in which the highly flattered personage now inditing this article supposed
no living mortal took interest enough to cross the street for the purpose of finding out,
‘‘Mr. W. W.’’ will at once devote thereto all reasonable pains and space. The ‘‘summer ’’
consists, (we will be very specific, in order to give the utmost possible satisfaction,)
according to the calendar legally established in this part of the world, of the months of  30
June, July, and August; thus the ‘‘summer of 1841’’ comprises the 29th day of July, 1841.
Now on the said 29th day of July, the aroused democracy of the counties of New York,
Kings, and Richmond, met in one of the mightiest mass meetings (the New Era report
said 15,000) then ever known—for it was feared that Mr. President Tyler, whose advent
had just been made, would ratify the charter of the whig national bank, in process of  35
incubation among the whig congressmen; and the rallying cry of prospective ‘repeal’
was sent forth, by all true American democrats. Among the officers of this meeting,
from Kings co., were H. P. Waring, Wm. Burbank, S. E. Johnson, and others;—and from
N. Y. such men as Isaac Varian, Edward H. Nicoll, J. W. Edmonds, W. Bowne, C. P.
White, old Christian Bergh, Stephen Allen, and so forth. And strange to say the very  40
personage, who, according to the Advertiser, was a ‘‘a whig’’ in the ‘‘summer of 1841,’’
was  introduced  by  the  chairman,  and  made  divers  remarks,  among  others  the
following—which are whiggish, are they?

From the New Era, July 30th, 1841.
‘‘After touching upon various points of democratic doctrine and policy, Mr. W. concluded as  45
follows: Meetings have been held by our people in various sections, to nominate a candidate for

240	  


the next presidency. My fellow citizens: let this be an afterthought. I beseech you to entertain a nobler and more elevated idea of our aim and struggles as a party than to suppose that we are striving to elevate this man or that man to power. We are  battling for great principles—for mighty  and  glorious  truths.  I  would  scorn  to  exert  even  my  humble  efforts  for  the  best
5    democratic candidate that ever was nominated, in himself alone. It is our creed—our doctrine; not a man or set of men, that we seek to build up. Let us attend then,  in  the meantime, to measures, policy and doctrine, and leave to future consideration the selection of the agent to carry our plans into effect. My firm conviction is that the next democratic candidate, whoever he may be, will be carried into power on the wings of a mighty re-action. The guardian spirit, the
10    good genius who has attended us ever since the days of Jefferson, has not now forsaken us. I can almost fancy myself able to pierce the darkness of the future and behold her looking down upon us with those benignant smiles she wore in 1828,  ’32,  and ’36. Again will she hover over us, encouraging us amid the smoke and  din of the battle, and leading us to our wonted victory, through ‘the sober second  thought of the people.’ ’’

15		So much for our being a whig in ’41. As to our ever having opposed the nomina- tion of Silas Wright, it happens that we were one of the instruments in the latter part of July ’44, of first making his nomination, through a democratic daily, published in N. Y. city: and this, in defiance of the then design of the ‘leaders’ that Mr. Bouck should be re-nominated. Silas Wright’s name was kept flying at this head of a paper we edited;
20    and many a hard foughten struggle had we to keep it there, till the meeting of the
Syracuse convention.
—Most of the squibs of the Advertiser toward us, are simply impertinent; and we
disdain even to crush such pitiful malevolence. But it may be as well to crush this
three-times-repeated  charge—an  utter  and  unmitigated  fabrication,  deliberately
25    woven out of no atom or shred of foundation—to the ‘‘proof’’ of which we challenge
our shameless neighbor, and wanting which we brand it, once for all, as the wicked
utterer of falsehoods. If there be any meaning in its promised ‘‘justice,’’ we demand,
now that it must ‘‘know’’ its insinuations false, that it publish the foregoing ‘‘proof,’’
and own its error.
30




April 7, 1847

35


Maxims

1.	As is the teacher, so is the school, and as is the pay, so is the teacher.
2.	The common school is the people’s college.
3.	Uneducated mind is educated vice.—Beecher.
4.	Taxes for the support of schools are like vapors, which rise only to descend
40    again, to beautify and fertilize the earth.
5.	Every school-house that is built, every child that is educated—are new and
additional pledges of our perpetuity.

  	241


    11.	Moral and religious education is the only living fountain which must water every part of the social garden, or its beauty withers and fades away.—Everett.





April 7, 1847

5

[Book Notice]


HISTORY  OF  THE   WORLD: from the earliest period to the year of our Lord 1783,  with particular reference to the affairs of Europe and her colonies. Translated from the  10
German of Baron John Von Muller. Compared through out with the original, revised, corrected, and illustrated by a notice of the life and writings of the author. By Alexander H. Everett. Harpers, pub.
Amid the high tides of the ‘light literature’ which overflows our day, all the above-
like solid works—full of interest, too, with their good solidity—present peculiar claims  15
on the favorable word of the critic. History can hardly be too far or too thoroughly
studied by the young. Particularly among the young men of America, could we wish
historical acquirements to form a more regular aim of learning. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
This work of Baron Muller ’s is written in a remarkably animated and flowing style.
‘‘We  know  no  writer,’’  says  of  him  the  German  Heeren,  ‘‘who  united  so  many  20
requisites for becoming the first historian of his age, perhaps we may say, of modern
times. Had he possessed a little more repose and steadiness of mind, it is not easy to
see what would have been wanting to him. He combined in the most remarkable
degree,  the  capacity  for  research,  with  the  talent  for  writing.  In  thorough  and
persevering examination of authorities of all kinds, he has never been surpassed. His  25
love of truth was pure, unfeigned, and proof against all hypotheses.’’
This edition is fitted for the purposes of school libraries. It comes down to 1783—
and the since time is to be pourtrayed in another work by Mr. Everett; which, we doubt
not, will be of high merit.
30



April 7, 1847
Clean the Streets! Clean the Streets! Clean the Streets!	35

    Immediately after such a rainy day as yesterday—and during such a mild convenient time as the present, (7th)—hundreds of sweepers and hoers should be put to cleaning the streets of this city, which are sadly in want of it.
40




April 8, 1847


American Biography
45

    Every youth in this country should be familiar with the lives of the great and good men who ushered into life rational liberty, and planted the landmarks of political
    
242	  


rights. It is therefore in every way commendable, and all ways to be encouraged, the pending course of the great publishing house, the Harpers, N. Y., to give a series of works on American biography, history, &c., for the use of young people, and for school district libraries. The condensation of Sparks’s ‘Library of American biography,’ is one
5    of these works. ‘‘We feel sure,’’ says the North American review, speaking of this work and its author, ‘‘that the documentary evidence he brings to bear on any point is as full and satisfactory as can be had; and his mere opinion is entitled to great weight, when not supported by direct proof. His negative testimony, when he says nothing can be found to support an allegation, is nearly conclusive, for we are confident the assertion
10    is not lightly made, and may fairly presume that what has escaped his researches does not exist.’’





15    April 9, 1847


Signs


    By a hundred of those mysterious and apparently trivial signs from which judges in such matters derive the ground of a firm inference, it seems to be ‘‘bruited about
20    town,’’ even among the whigs, that Thomas J. Gerald is going to be elected mayor of Brooklyn! At first, when Mr. Stryker ’s friends trotted him out on this spring’s race, they laughed at the idea of his losing it. They either really thought or professed to think, that Mr. S. was sure to be the man! They laughed at the idea of defeat. They went gadding about the streets, and wanted to bet on him.
25	But will any body pretend to say now, that they exhibit these signs of confidence?
Surely all who observe the course of events, must acknowledge that the tables are
turned, and that the whigs now evidently dread defeat, as an every way probability! On the
other hand, our people have that good natured confidence of success which comes
from the likelihood of victory.
30	We saw last evening a whig refuse to take a bet offered by a democrat, of ten
dollars against three that Mr. Stryker would not get a majority of votes in Brooklyn.
And all the whig splutterers have ‘hauled in their horns;’ which is equivalent to saying
that they don’t at all like the looks of the political horizon hereabout.

35



April 13, 1847


Nothing but the Whole Ticket!


40		Already,  at  the  early  hour  of  9  o’clock,  the  whigs  are  offering  to  swap  their candidate for mayor for a vote in favor of a whig alderman, and in some instances have even offered to guarantee two whig votes for Mr. Gerald for a single democratic vote given to their charter nominees? This shows that the ‘‘shadows’’ of coming defeat are even now falling in gloomy weight upon the poor whigs. But, democrats! don’t
45    chaffer with the pedlars! Vote your whole ticket clean through, and make the enemy surrender as unconditionally and thoroughly to your conquering flag, as did the federal

  	243


forces of Vera Cruz to the republicans of our democratic army. . . . . . The whigs have taken the panic, and let us take them!





April 13, 1847

5

Let Us Illuminate


    We hope there is patriotism enough in Brooklyn to ‘illuminate’ for those signal triumphs in Mexico. Is there not, Brooklynites?	10





April 14, 1847


How We Feel about It	15


    Well: the whigs have triumphed in Brooklyn. They have carried in their mayor, supervisors, and an effectual majority in the common council. So that there isn’t any half way work in the business; we are what the Ohio boatmen would call a ‘‘gol- fizzled’’ party. . . . . . . . . To say that this result is a matter of no unpleasantness to us,  20 would of course be doing great injustice to our own heart. Every word that we uttered, during the last campaign, in favor of our candidates, we felt, and still feel, to be true; and the same with our remarks on the whig candidates. We possess the satisfaction of wanting not to recall a single phrase or line. And we take this occasion to aver, that we never worked for men whom we thought fitter, and better worth, success, than Mr.  25
Gerald, and our supervisor and aldermanic candidates.
But really, when one calls his phlegm and philosophy a little in exercise, one can
take these things with coolness and serenity enough, after all. It varies the monotony,
for our side to be beaten; almost as much as it does for the whigs to succeed.—Then
there is so much less responsibility and trouble—so much greater leisure and ‘fun’—  30
for the outs. As to the ins, alas! they are always more or less to be pitied! Civil strife,
rivalry for appointments, and other turmoil, spread among them all the waters of
bitterness. Poor devils! they little know what they have to undergo. While, as for the
defeated party, it can walk about with its hands in its pockets, a gentleman at large;
and can occasionally amuse itself with the hubbub among the miserable forlorn ones  35
who are borne down with the weights of power. We defy any one to say this ain’t so.
The truth is, too, we ought in mere charity to let the whigs ‘beat’ once in a great
while, in some little local election; otherwise, they wouldn’t be able to keep alive, and
we wouldn’t have the pleasure of whipping ’em in general. This is an important
consideration. Moreover there is another point of similar far-sighted policy which  40
must not be overlooked; and that is—put the whigs in power, and they will soon save
us the trouble of fighting for our future victories, (a while, at least,) by cutting their
own throats. Who ever knew that faction to hold consecutive terms of full sovereignty?
Upon the whole, the ugly and venomous toad of whig success may not be without
the germ of a precious jewel to our future crown of triumph. . . . . . We feel perfectly  45
serene about the whole affair.

244	  




April 14, 1847


Book World


LIVES  OF  EMINENT  INDIVIDUALS, CELEBRATED IN  AMERICAN  HISTORY.  3 vols. Harpers, 82
5	Cliff st., N. Y. pub. [For sale at T. D. Smith’s, 202 Fulton st. Brooklyn.]
In our mention of this work a few days since, we spoke in high terms of the
beneficial influence of its kind, on the young readers of our country—for it is to them,
and  for  their  good,  that  it  is  more  particularly  written;  although  its  style  and
condensation give it a claim among the members of the library for maturer reading,
10    too. The life of Columbus, abridged from Irving’s, has been heretofore published; that
of Washington is in preparation—also Franklin’s. The vols whose titles we give above,
contain  the  lives  of  John  Stark,  Brainerd,  Fulton,  Capt.  John  Smith,  Ethan  Allen,
Sebastian Cabot, Hudson, Warren, Putnam, Rittenhouse, Pinkney, Vane, Wayne, Wm.
Ellery, and Montgomery. Great names, these, for the American heart and thought!
15    . . . . . . The selections are compiled from Mr. Sparks’s ‘American biography,’ a work
which has received the highest approbation of the best judgment of the land. . . . . . We
hope the publishers will keep up the train of this valuable department of literature—
so useful to all readers.

20    AN   HISTORICAL  SKETCH OF  TRINITY  CHURCH, N. Y. By the Rev. Dr. Berrian, the rector of the same.—Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway, N. Y.
    This volume embraces a large mass not only of general information on the subject of the church whose history it gives, but of statistical details—quite all of them interesting. Dr. Berrian, the author, is perhaps the very best person who could have
25    been selected. We remember to have heard him, the first or second Sunday after the opening of the great temple; when his discourse involved some of the information here given. And a very large and mixed audience were sufficiently interested in the matter, to  forego  the  pleasure  of  a  more  smooth  elocution,  and  greater  beauty  of  vocal style. . . . . . Perhaps the most historical edifice of a devotional character, which we
30    have in this part of the country, is old Trinity. It is identified with the various eras of our national existence; from the settlement of Manhattan island, to the commencement of the revolutionary war—and thence to the present time. . . . . . . . The style of the book we are mentioning is clear and nervous—the chain of incidents connected—and the typographical execution of the whole, very neat.
35
PAST    AND  PRESENT, AND   CHARTISM. By Thos. Carlyle. 2 parts. Wiley and  Putnam, 161
Broadway, N. Y.
One  likes  Mr.  Carlyle,  the  more  he  communes  with  him;  there  is  a  sort  of
fascination about the man. His wierd, wild way—his phrases, welded together as it
40    were, with strange twistings of the terminatives of words—his startling suggestions—
his  taking  up,  fish-hook like,  certain  matters  of  abuse—make  an  original  kind  of
composition, that gets after a little usage, to be strangely agreeable! This ‘Past and
Present, and Chartism,’ now—who would ever puzzle out the drift of the book from
the  chapter-heads?  from  such  phrases  as  ‘‘Plugson  on  undershot,’’  or  ‘‘the  One
45    institution,’’ or ‘‘Gospel of Dilletantism’’? And yet there lies rich ore under that vague
surface.

  	245


AIDS   TO  REFLECTION. By Samuel Taylor Coleridge.—With the author ’s last  corrections.
Edited by Henry Nelson Coleridge, M. A. To which is prefixed a preliminary essay
by John M’Vickar, D.D., professor of moral philosophy in Columbia college, N. Y.
Sixth edition, revised and corrected. Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway, N. Y.
In the author ’s own words, the objects of this book are ‘‘to direct the reader ’s	5
attention to the value of the science of words, their use and abuse, and the incalculable
advantages attached to the habit of using them appropriately, and with a distinct
knowledge of their primary, derivative, and metaphorical senses.’’ Also ‘‘to identify
and distinguish the characters of prudence, morality, and religion—and the difference
between reason and understanding.’’ Also ‘‘to exhibit a full and consistent scheme of  10
the  Christian  dispensation,  and  more  largely  of  all  the  peculiar  doctrines  of  the
christian faith; and to answer all the objections to the same which do not originate in a
corrupt will rather than an erring judgment.’’ The last is confessedly among a writer ’s
highest objects; and the other two are of more importance than first thought might lead
one to suppose.	15

THE     CHILD’S   FRIEND;  being  selections  from  the  various  works  of  Arnand  Berquin.
Adapted to the use of American readers. With a sketch of his life and writings.—
Harpers, N. Y. [For sale by T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton st., Brooklyn.]
One of the excellent little books, this, so large a variety of which the Harpers are  20
publishing for the use of young people, and district libraries. Both those purposes, it is
admirably fitted for.

DIANA   OF   MERIDOR; or the lady of Monsoreau. By Alexander Dumas. Translated by
Henry Wm. Herbert. Williams & co. 24 Ann st. N. Y.	25
The reputation of the French novelist, as a writer of ‘‘thrilling’’ romance, is familiar
enough to all who have much acquaintance with literature.—Among certain classes,
he is the most popular writer in the ‘gay land.’ Mr. Herbert, we are assured, has fully
the means and talent requisite to his part of the performance.
30
SYLVANDIRE; or, the disputed inheritance. By Dumas—Translated by Thomas Williams.
Williams, 24 Ann st.
We like this better, as a story, than the foregoing, by the same author. Indeed, we
think there are not many books, of its scope, with superior interest.
35
ECLECTIC   COMMENTARY ON  THE   HOLY  BIBLE,  from the works of Henry and Scott &c.
Pub. by the London religious tract society. Robert T. Shannon, 118 Nassau st. N. Y.
agent.
Parts 2 and 3 of this elegantly printed serial, are sent us. The work is to be
completed in 24 parts.	40

THE   WORKS  OF  FLAVIUS  JOSEPHUS, translated by Wm Whiston, A. M. George Virtue, London, (26 John st. N. Y.)
    This is a well got up series, in numbers, of one of the standards of not only English, but all other literature too. It is complete in 16 parts with plates at 25 cents  45 each.
    
246	  


CHAMBERS’S   CYCLOPÆDIA OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE.—Reprinted by Gould,  Kendall & Lincoln, 59 Washington st. Boston.
    No. 7 contains a fine steel engraving of Byron. The work bids fair to be one of the most popular of the day.
5
Littell’s LIVING   AGE:  Nos. 151 and 2. Wm. Taylor, 2 Astor House, N. Y.
A  new  volume  of  this  right  princely  periodical  has  just  been  commenced,
affording the right opportunity, (through the N. Y. agency,) for subscribing.

10



April 15, 1847


Evening Schools


15		The project for free evening schools, which originated in Brooklyn, was commend- ably seized upon by our New York friends, who have already succeeded in getting a bill to establish such schools passed through the senate, and the same will doubtless pass the assembly. Why do our board of education and common council still sleep on these things?
20



April 16, 1847

25	An Emanation of Brooklyn Patriotism—Meeting of Citizens in Front of  the ‘‘Eagle’’ Office to Testify Their Sense
of Our Brilliant Victories in the South-West

One can hardly say that the citizens of Brooklyn have not their goodly share of
30    patriotic spirit; for the way they collected around our office last evening, (15th) to join
in the testimonials of praise to our countrymen’s glorious achievements in Mexico
proved the contrary! At a given signal, a little before 8 o’clock, the whole broad front of
the building, in not more than the space of three or four seconds, was changed from
total darkness to a blaze of light. A transparency, inscribed with the now historical
35    names of PALO ALTO, RESACA DE  LA  PALMA, MONTEREY, BUENA VISTA, AND VERA CRUZ,
shone clearly from the second story, and evinced to the multitude in front the reason of
the proceeding.
There is hardly a more admirable impulse in the human soul than patriotism. And
although it may sometimes be awkward in its developement, or may go to extremes, it
40    is in those respects like all the other good qualities of the human character; and one can
respect the motive, even if the style of displaying it be not brilliant. Thus we admire
most the patriotism of what are called by some ‘‘the common people,’’ who form the
great bulk and strength of the state. It is the custom of certain finical gentlemen to
plume themselves on a sort of abstractedness from such common traits; and they like
45    better to stand upon their philosophy, and even lean to the other side, from that of the
countrymen, in order to show their miserable ‘independence.’ This is a wretched

  	247


ambition, and unworthy any ample mind. One’s country, it is true, cannot always be perfectly just in every motion and action—neither can one’s parent or wife, or dearest friend. But to go against either of the latter, to revile them, or to oppose them, were hardly more infamous than to revile or oppose the cause of one’s native land. And cold must be the pulse, and throbless to all good thoughts—no true American’s will it be—	5 which cannot respond to the valorous emprise of our soldiers and commanders in Mexico. Nor does this pride in our victorious armies involve the least indisposition to
the earliest possible honorable peace with Mexico. Heaven grant that we may now have peace! For with all the trophies our arms have gained, we can still say so with the most earnest soul. But it must be remembered that the desire on the part of our  10 government for peace with Mexico, must be met with a willingness for peace on the part of Mexico herself. Until that time arrives, the war is unavoidable.





April 16, 1847

15

[The Brooklyn ‘‘Evening Star’’]


    The  drift  of  yesterday’s  Evening  Star’s  leading  editorial,  in  rejoinder  to  some remarks of this print the day before, lies in the assertion that the Brooklyn Eagle feels a  20
‘‘dreadful disappointment in regard to party profits,’’ and is covered with sorrow because (having lost the Brooklyn election) it is not to cut any slices for itself of the po- litical fat which rewards success. Moreover, the Star knows how one feels, better than one knows himself—and persists that our serenity was not serenity after all, but only a
‘‘painful spasmodic effort.’’ It then addresses us in the following prodigious manner:  25

    ‘‘Eagle! soar above the low and fœtid purlieus of profligate partyism! Mere party is but a poor and discreditable dependence. Leave yon croaking buzzard over the way to the vile offals and garbage of party! Let thy ends, like ours, be thy country’s and truth’s! Corruption wins not
more than honesty. The patriotism which we have ever cherished, and which breathes in our  30
columns, and which determined our happy political issues on Tuesday last, may confer,—even
on thee,—respectability and honor! Partizan patronage is humbugious: its promises were, what
it once was, mighty; but its performance was, what it now is, nothing. The restlessness of stark
democracy may, in thine eyes, constitute its beauty: so restlessness is the beauty of the sea, which
renders it a sorry foundation whereon to build. But what sayest thou of this restless democracy’s indeterminateness and unquestionable destructiveness? Are these also  beautiful?’’	35

    Yes: to us the ‘‘destructiveness’’ of democracy is very beautiful; because, without it,  all the accumulated tyranny and the hoary abuses and abominations of the past would  continue. ‘‘Indeterminateness’’ is no part of democracy—which has the defi- nite, (though its vast comprehensiveness makes it vague enough to some minds,) ‘end  40 and aim’ of rooting out all that interferes with man’s native-born and rational freedom,
at the same time guarding every right of the individual—his ‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.’ In this long and weary struggle, as in the progress of the winds, there come many counter-currents; but they are trivial—while the flow of the great purpose itself wends on forever, as long as human hearts throb to good desires and to  45 hopes for truth and christianity.

248	  


    But perhaps our contemporary, in the method of the above extract, means to be waggish, (excuse us if this be an error.) And as we can’t lose all the fun, even if our side didn’t win last Tuesday, we take the liberty, in all good nature, of responding in like strain. . . . . . . . . Star! go wash thy venerable eyes, that thou mayest see how the
5    world has not been sleeping for these fifty years! Mere precedent is nothing, and will oftener warrant wrong than right. Thou ‘aged and respectable’ whig! wilt thou forever turn up thy time-honored nose at all which smacks of alteration and reform? For goodness’ sake, thrust not thy small clothes, queue, and powder, before every body’s eyes, as the nonpariel of human genius! Inspirit thy dry bones forthwith, or the young
10    world will leave thee in its race far behind, and thy querulous voice will vibrate only to the ears which belong to the same ‘establishment.’ Thou mays’t be a nice young gentleman enough for a very limited circle met to imbibe a decoction of the Chinese herb, but in certain matters thou surely art not elevated to an equal height with fine particles of the tobacco plant!
15




April 17, 1847

20


Fort Greene Park—
Brooklyn Observatory


    The bill for establishing Washington park has been passed by the assembly branch of our state legislature; and it will, without the least doubt, receive the sanction of the senate, as well as the governor. It must then, of course, devolve on the common council
25  of Brooklyn to carry out its provisions; which we hope and trust they will do forthwith.—The bill in question is wisely framed, and meets the peculiar exigencies of the case admirably. The objection to the park has hitherto been, (after the expense) the paucity of legal power, on the part of the corporation, to buy the ground. But here is a special statute, from the legislature, which of course obviates such objection; and as to
30    the expense, it is nothing, compared with the immense good to be derived from the park. Thousands of people, both present and future, will receive benefit from this park; and it claims special favor, from all who profess to regard the interests of the great middling order of our population.
But there is another point connected with the reservation of Fort Greene for a
35    park; and that is, the establishment on it of our contemplated observatory. We believe
there is but one opinion as to the propriety of that site for the observatory. Indeed we
never visit the natural crests of the old fort, and walk across its apex, without realizing
how such a use would indeed be fitting and proper. There one could indeed watch
the stars, even without the help of artificial means. There one would be lifted out from
40    the turmoil of the grosser life below. Ah! we hope nothing may occur to prevent the
consummation  of  the  park  and  observatory!  . . . . .  The  following  article  we  find
leading the editorials of the N. Y. Courier and Enquirer of this morning:
[Quotation from New York paper omitted—34 ll.]
So that even in the great emporium of this new world, the project has received
45    wide attention, and meets with as wide favor. Go on, then! go on with these noble
schemes—a  park  such  as  no  other  city  can  boast,  and  a  grand  observatory  to
match it!

  	249




April 17, 1847


Flogging in Our Brooklyn Schools


    Although we take decided ground against the wretched government of the rod and ferule, in schools, we are not disposed to condemn—with any violence at least—	5 those moderate teachers who whip only in rare instances and extreme cases, and then under the control of dignified temper, and a manly responsibility. But hardly any words are too emphatic to apply to the teacher—unworthy that noble and honorable name—who has no other means of making his pupils obey him, than blows—who turns his school into a place of dread and torment—who thrashes boys for the most  10 trivial oversight, and instead of making them love him for his affection and good will
to them, and respect him for his serenity and calmness, induces them to hate him, as their petty tyrant. . . . . . . We call the particular attention of the trustees of the public school no. 8, in Middagh street, to an inquiry whether the rod is not used there to an altogether unpardonable extent. If we are rightly informed, the most trifling matter,  15 (such as kicking an old hat in the street,) is made the reason for a whipping. One boy was the other day, even for a less offence, so severely attacked by the instructor (?) that
the skin of his hand was abrased, the blood stained it, and the ferule was broken! In all our visits to this school, (the boys’ department,) except the first ones before it was fairly under way, we have been impressed with the miserableness of the system pursued  20 there. It is unworthy of this age, and this city. It is incumbent on the proper officers to
see that it be remedied; and we hereby call upon them to do so.





April 19, 1847

25

Brooklyn Schools


We would extend the spirit of some remarks made in our Saturday’s paper, on
the management and mismanagement of Brooklyn schools, into an invitation to the  30
proper officers that they take some pains to procure for teachers men of gentlemanly
toned minds, of suavity and good temper, and of benevolent dispositions. And we
suggest  to  the  teachers  themselves,  through  all  departments,  male,  female,  and
primary, the diffusion by example of those traits among their pupils. As to children—
those little chamelions who take their hue from everything around them—those little  35
harps  that  respond  in  the  same  spirit,  soft  and  gentle,  or  wild  and  discordant,
wherewith they are touched—as to children, there are very many who receive the
seeds of the most absurd and improper habits from their monitors or teachers at
school. Severity and harsh chastisement are like ice to them; and under such cold
influence  grow  no  wholesome  fruits  or  beautiful  flowers.  But  gentleness  is  the  40
sunshine and the summer air.
We like well to know that public attention is really widely turned, now-a-days, to
the public schools, and to all matters affecting their weal or woe. The monotonous
stereotyped phrases about ‘‘the advantages of education,’’ are still babbled by some
who talk it as parrots talk; but the best part of those who direct society, fully realize the  45
great  effects—ascending  and  descending  into  all  the  departments  of  life  and  of
happiness, of every class and of every age, of the politics, the morals, and even the

250	  


commerce, of the nation—of the public schools of this land. And when we come to think on the princely munificence ever evinced by the government of the state of New York toward them—the incalculable sums spent upon them, tallied by other sums drawn directly from the people—the fine edifices built for their accommodation, and
5    varied talent employed in sundry ways in ministering to their efficiency—we may well be pardoned for asking, Have all these really produced as much as the richness of the material would warrant? Has there not been a lack of teachers, really worthy their noble employment? Have we not jogged on in the path of the past, making the pupil familiar with forms and words instead of essences and things? Such questions are not amiss to
10    be self-put by the members of the Brooklyn board of education, for most of the individuals composing which we have a high respect—too high to think they will ever take it amiss that we endeavor in our humble way to aid the progress of the seminaries of Brooklyn through the frequent remarks and suggestions we make about them, in these columns.
15		And the time has arrived—we mean to state this item in the most emphatic manner—for totally banishing the lash, the rod, and the use of blows, from our schools. Such teachers should be selected as proceed on a principle the reverse of that which requires blows; for we have little faith even in the mild plan unless it come from the voluntary convictions of teachers. And whenever a school is conducted on the brutal
20    plan, (we presume there is but one such in Brooklyn,) it seems to us so clear what course the officers should pursue, that we do not think it necessary here even to  state it.





25    April 19, 1847


Our New Press


    About as pretty and clean-working a piece of machinery as a man might wish to look on, (with all the ‘latest improvements,’) is in the shape of our new napier press—
30    to go by steam or other power—which puts on its bib and tucker, and makes its first bow before us this morning. The dull rub-a-dub shakes our table from the room below while we write; and if the new mint that is to be in New York, would only toss off Eagles as fast as it tosses them, Mr. Benton’s ‘‘golden dream’’ might not be so much of a chimera, after all. . . . . . This press (Taylor, maker,) is truly a magnificent piece of
35    workmanship, as far as we can yet judge. As a temporary inconvenience, however, from our folks not being yet used to it, a portion of our subscribers will get their papers printed in a wry manner.




40
April 19, 1847



Dramatic Affairs, and Actors


In the heaviness that of late years seems spread, like a Lethean fog, over the
45    prospects of a high-developed drama in this country, there is yet but little sign of the
‘curtain’s rising.’ At the Park theatre, a new piece, Wissmuth & co., has been produced,
but it is doubtless one of those amphibious things that balk the good appetite of the
times for a better drama—for an improvement on the antiquated non-pleasant method

  	251


of the past. . . . . . To-night, at the Park, Mrs. Mason commences an engagement, playing Bianca in Fazio—Mr. Wheatley as the latter character. (A morbid affair, this Fazio play, much like the worse of Bulwer ’s novels.) Mrs. M. is spoken of in high terms by the critics of the N. Y. press; but then there is really no dependance to be placed on
those  notices  of  public  performers—they  are  half  the  time  paid  for  by  parties	5 concerned, and much of the other half is the result of favoritism. . . . . . At the Olympic theatre, they are giving a run, after the old sort, of the popular operas, very neatly got
up on a small scale; Miss Taylor appears to-night as Zerlina in Fra Diavolo; (the best played parts at this theatre are Diavolo’s two fellow robbers). . . . . . At the Bowery, Mrs. Shaw ‘takes’ the countess in Knowles’s Love—a good play. At the Chatham,  10
Yankee Hill enacts his miserably exaggerated burlesques upon New England man- ners. . . . . . At the opera house in Chambers street, they are continuing the representa- tion of a narrow few—those not even the second best—of the Italian operas; to-night, Lucrezia Borgia. On Wednesday night, it will be pleasanter to go, for then they give Lombardi. Nor must we overlook the new musical corps, late from Havana, now  15 giving operas at the Park, two evenings a week: after the next representation by this corps, our readers will get a plain man’s opinions of them.
    We reiterate an idea often advanced by us before—a suggestion that some great revolution must take place here, modernizing and Americanizing the drama, before it
can reach that position among the first rank of intellectual entertainments, and as one  20 of those agents of refining public manners and doing good, where it properly belongs. The  same style and system of theatricals now exists that existed a hundred years ago,—while nearly every thing else is changed. What would be thought of writing novels and publishing newspapers on the plans that prevailed then? How long too shall we continue a mere inheritor of what is discarded in the old world? For the noble  25 specimens in all the departments of literature which England has given us—for the varied beauties of Shakspeare, the treasures of her honest sturdy old comedies, with their satire upon folly and vice of all kinds,—we are thankful, and would spread their influence for ever. Let them hold possession of the stage as long as may be—but not at
the expense of our independence, and by making us a set of provincial imitators. It is  30
no disrespect to those glorious old pieces and their authors to say that God’s heavenly
gift of genius has not been confined to them and their method of developement alone.
We have here in this land a new and swarming race, with an irrepressible vigor for
working forward to superiority in every thing. As yet, it is true, all seems crude, chaotic,
and unformed; but over the surface of the troubled waters, we think we see far ahead  35
the Ararat, and the olive tree growing near. The drama must rise: the reign of English
managers and English local plays must have its end.





April 20, 1847

40

[The Democratic Spirit]


    To attack the turbulence and destructiveness of the democratic spirit, is an old story—a tale told by many an idiot, and often signifying indeed ‘nothing’ save that the  45 teller is too shallow to be more than a mechanical walker in the path of the ignorant black past, and look on these who turn aside there from as heretics and dangerous ones. Why, all that is good and grand in any political organization in the world, is the
    
252	  


result of this turbulence and destructiveness; and controlled by the intelligence and common sense of such a people as the Americans, it never has brought harm, and never can. A quiet contented race sooner or later becomes a race of slaves—and when so be- come, there are always among them still worse slaves, bound mentally, who argue that
5    it is better so, than to rise and destroy the tyranny that galls them. But with the noble democratic spirit—even accompanied by its freaks and its excesses—no  people can ever become enslaved; and to us, all the noisy tempestuous scenes of politics witnessed in this country—all the excitement and strife, even—are good to behold. They evince that the people act; they are the discipline of the young giant,  getting his maturer
10    strength. Is not this better than the despairing apathy wherewith the populace of Russia and Austria and the miserable German states—those well-ordered governments— endure the black-hearted rapacity of their rulers? We trow it is. And it is from such materials—from the democracy, with its manly heart and its lion strength, spurning the ligatures wherewith drivellers would bind it—that we are to expect the great
15    FUTURE of this western world! a scope involving such unparallelled human happi- ness and rational freedom, to such unnumbered myriads, that the heart of a true man leaps with a mighty joy only to think of it! God works out his greatest results by such means; and while each popinjay priest of the mummery of the past is babbling his alarm, the youthful Genius of the people passes swiftly over era after era of change
20    and improvement, and races of human beings erewhile down in gloom or bondage rise gradually toward that majestic developement which the good God doubtless loves to witness. . . . . . It is the fashion of a certain set to assume to despise ‘politics’ and the
‘corruption of parties,’ and the unmanageableness of the masses: they look at the fierce struggle, and at the battle of principles and candidates, and their weak nerves retreat
25    dismayed from the neighborhood of such scenes of convulsion. But to our view, the spectacle is always a grand one—full of the most august and sublime attributes. When we think how many ages rolled away while political action—which rightly belongs to every man whom God sends on earth with a soul and a rational mind,—was confined to a few great and petty tyrants, the ten thousandth of the whole; when we see what
30    cankerous evils gradually accumulated, and how their effect still poisons society—is it too much to feel this joy that among us the whole surface of the body politic is expanded to the sun and air, and each man feels his rights and acts them? Nor ought any member of our republic to complain, as long as the aggregate result of such action is what the world sees it is. Do we not behold evolving into birth, from it, the most wondrous
35    nation, the most free from those evils which bad government causes, the really widest extending, possessing the truest riches of people and moral worth and freedom from want, ever yet seen aneath the broad heavens? . . . . . . We know, well enough, that the workings of the democracy are not always justifiable, in every trivial point. But the great winds that purify the air, and without which nature would flag into ruin—are
40    they to be condemned because a tree is prostrated here and there, in their course?





April 20, 1847
45


Play Grounds


    One powerful recommendation to a school is that it has a fine ample play ground for the pupils to recreate in the open air.
    
  	253




April 20, 1847


Schools and Legislatures


    A few weeks since the schools of New York and Brooklyn sent specimens of writing, mapping, pencil drawings, &c., to a large portion of the members of the	5 legislature of New Jersey. Dr. King, a member of that legislature, and superintendent of schools for that state, remarked, at the close of an examination of one of the New York public  schools  a  few  days  since,  that  when  those  specimens  were  received,  the legislature laid aside the ordinary business of legislation, to give an opportunity for their presentation, explanation, and distribution among the members, in behalf of  10 schools in their respective districts. Dr. K. also stated that the schools in every small town and hamlet through the whole state were now receiving the benefit of the joint efforts of pupils in New York and Brooklyn, and their own legislators.

15



April 20, 1847


Brooklyn Schools


    We wish to be understood that our remarks in reference to the Middagh street  20 public school apply to the boys’ department exclusively—and toward the control of that department we reiterate them in the most emphatic manner.—They particularly do not apply,  however,  to  the  primary  department  of  no.  8.  That  room,  averaging  an attendance of near two hundred children, is under the charge of Miss Cahoone, with two assistants, and during the whole time she has had charge, which has been for the  25 last fourteen months, we are informed by a friend who is a member of the board of education, and has been frequently there, that no complaint whatever has been made
by  any  of  the  parents  or  by  the  district  committee,  of  the  manner  in  which  that
department is governed: on the contrary Miss C. possesses the entire confidence of all
the parents of the children under her care, and those who are personally acquainted  30
with her, speak in the highest terms of her both individually and as a public teacher.
We make this explanation with great pleasure, as we understand that our remarks
caused some pain to the estimable young lady who has the charge of this department,
as also her two valuable assistants.
35




April 22, 1847



New States: Shall They Be Slave or Free?	40


    It is of not so much importance, the difference in the idea of a proper time to discuss, if we are only united in the principle that whatever new territory may be annexed to the United States, shall be free territory, and not for slaves. With the present slave states, of course, no human being any where out from themselves has the least  45 shadow of a right to interfere; but in new land, added to our surface by the national arms, and by the action of our government, and where slavery does not exist, it is certainly of momentous importance one way or the other, whether that land shall be
    
254	  


slave  land  or  not.  All  ordinarily  ‘‘weighty  issues’’  are  insignificant before  this:  it swallows them up as Aaron’s rod swallowed the other rods. It involves the question whether the mighty power of this republic, put forth in its greatest strength, shall be used to root deeper and spread wider an institution which Washington, Jefferson,
5    Madison, and all the old fathers of our freedom, anxiously, and avowedly from the bottom of their hearts, sought the extinction of, and considered inconsistent with the other institutions of the land. And if those true and brave old men were now among us, can any candid person doubt which ‘side’ they would espouse in this argument? Would the great apostle of democracy—in his clear views of right and wrong, and
10    their linked profit and loss—would he now, seeing the stalwart giants of the free young west, contrasted with the meagre leanness of the south—meagre with all her noble traits—would he hesitate in bending his divine energies to the side of freedom?
    The man who accustoms himself to think, when such matters are put before him, and does not whiff his opinion rapidly out, from mere heedlessness, or from a more
15    degrading motive, will see the wide and radical difference between the unquestionable folly, and wicked wrong, of ‘abolitionist’ interference with slavery in the southern states—and this point of establishing slavery in fresh land. With the former we have nothing to do; but with the latter, we should all be derelict to our highest duties as christians, as men, and as democrats, if we did not throw ourselves into the field of
20    discussion, using the utmost display of every energy wherewith God has endowed us, in behalf of the side which reason and religion proclaim as the right one. Is this the country, and this the age, where and when we are to be told that slavery must be propped up and extended? And shall any respectable portion of our citizens be deluded either by the sophisms of Mr. Calhoun, or those far, very far, lower influences
25    of the darkest and meanest phases of demagoguism, which are rife more at the north than the south, to act in a matter which asks consideration purely on points of high justice, human rights, national advantage, and the safety of the union in the future?




30
April 22, 1847



Book World


THE     PURSUIT    OF    KNOWLEDGE    UNDER   DIFFICULTIES. Illustrated  by  anecdotes,  with
35	portraits. Revised edition, with a preface and notes; by Francis Wayland, D.D.,
president of Brown’s university. 2 vols. Harpers, pub. [For sale at T. D. Smith, 202
Fulton st.]
Many of the incidents related in these volumes are of an interest whose intensity
amounts almost to pain! Here we have the throes and struggles for knowledge, in the
40    minds of boys and men—and not a few women, too. We have what may be called the
deepest part of the histories of such people as Bacon, Leibnitz, Ferguson, and brains of
that sort. We have incidents and adventures from the fortune of a hundred other brave
and persevering geniuses. The design of collecting such together is truly avowed to be,
to  illustrate  the  important  fact  that  there  are  no  circumstances  so  adverse  to  the
45    acquisition of knowledge, as will preclude the reasonable hope of attracting intellec-
tual eminence if we resolutely strive for it. This fact is illustrated by anecdotes of the
persons  we  have  alluded  to—men  who,  under  every  disadvantage,  have  raised

  	255


themselves to distinction. Neither humble birth nor abject poverty, or the most serious natural defects, have been able to arrest the progress of the resolute and persevering student.

MEMOIRS  OF  MRS. ELIZABETH  FRY. Including a history of her labors in promoting the	5 reformation of female prisoners, and the improvement of British seamen. By Rev. Thos.  Timpson,  honorary  secretary  to  the  British  and  foreign  sailors’  society. Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway, N. Y.
    Not long since we had in our paper an elaborate notice of the life of Mrs. Fry, in which we proffered that opinion of her christian character which seems to be almost  10 unanimously agreed in throughout this country as well as the British dominions.—No
one can peruse her doings, without advantage. She seems to have been a pioneer of a class greater and higher than mere rank or the brightest genius can show. Every page of the book we are noticing adds to the beauty of Mrs. Fry’s reputation; and we shall
take an early opportunity to make liberal extracts.	15

HISTORY OF FRANCE, from the earliest period to the present time. By M. Michelet. Trans- lated by G. H. Smith, F. G. S., Nos. 8 and 9. D. Appleton & co., 200 Broadway, N. Y. Among the writers of France, none of the contemporary age are more famed for
certain qualities necessary to the historian, than Michelet. None certainly are more  20 industrious in collecting facts, and in digesting and clearly presenting them. Of the many standard works from his pen, the history of France is on some accounts the best:
he appears to have taken pride and pains in making it the fullest and the clear- est. . . . . . This edition is issued in numbers, at 25 cents each.
25
WELLMAN’S  ILLUSTRATED BOTANY. Edited, by J. L. Comstock, M.D., author of ‘‘Botany,’’
‘‘Natural Philosophy,’’ &c. Vol. for 1846. Nos. for March and April, 1847. J. K.
Wellman, corner Park Row and Nassau st., N. Y.
Flowers and plants! yes, this is the season for them; and here is just the publication
which treats upon them! Among the habits that refine the mind and genialize one’s  30
nature, few are more productive of those results than the cultivation of plants and
flowers. We recommend every lady, (and why not gentleman too?) on Long Island,
who has the least inkling of a taste that way, to cultivate it: and the reading of the
periodical above named will help along the taste marvellously.
35
ALICE  GORDON; or the uses of orphanage. By Joseph Alden, D.D. author of ‘‘Elizabeth
Benton,’’ &c. With Illustrations. Harpers, N. Y.
This work forms one of the new series of Harpers’ fireside library; and if all are
equally well written and well printed, they will indeed be worthy of that graphic
name.	40

THE    HOME    TREASURY.—No. 1.—Comprising Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, &c.
Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y.
Very prettily printed, and illustrated in just the manner to make a child extatic! We
love all time-honored legends; and surely these are of that class. Besides, we go with the  45
laudable  effort  to  keep  up  the  good  old  stories  of  the  nursery—almost  the  only
fictitious old, that we do go for.

256	  


THE   WONDERS  OF  NATURE  AND ART; or truth stranger than fiction. Adapted to interest and instruct—to enliven the social and beguile the solitary. Illustrated with sixty one  engravings.  By  the  author  of  ‘‘the  pastoral  life  and  manufactures  of  the ancients.’’ Burgess, Stringer, & co., 222 Broadway, N. Y.
5		Among the general subjects of this work are treatises on human physiology, on automata, on dioramas, the formation of images in the dark, and so on.

SPAIN REVISITED. By A. Slidell Mackenzie, author of ‘‘the American in England,’’ and ‘‘a year in Spain.’’ Harpers, N. Y.
10		This well printed book, (in the large type we love to see,) is one of the most readable affairs—without being ‘deep’—in the whole range of American productions. No one can take it up without being insensibly drawn to continue its perusal—and some of the sketches are quite gem-like in their completeness; such as that describing the visit to the prisons of the Spanish capital, for instance.
15
MEMORIA  TECHNICA; or the art of abbreviating those studies which give the greatest labor to the memory. To which is added a perpetual almanac, for two thousand years to come. By Lorenzo D. Johnson. Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, 59 Washington street, Boston.
20		This work is intended, as its name imports, to assist the memory. We have not been able fully to examine it.

STRING   OF   PEARLS. A novel; by G. P. R. James. Harpers, pub.
An oriental romance—and rather better than many of Mr. James’s efforts. A
25    ‘pocket edition.’

GRAHAM’S   MAGAZINE   for May. W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, N. Y.
This number has for its embellishments, pictures of a ‘‘dance by the Mandan
women,’’ and ‘‘the lover ’s leap.’’
30




April 23, 1847

35


Mr. Webster: The Great Bribed

    We spoke on several occasions and in emphatic terms last spring of the political gift, (call it bribe, or call it donation, it is the purport of the thing that we condemn,) the
$100,000 made over by the whigs and monopolists of the east to Mr. Senator Webster. And we must say that we have been amazed at seeing so little stress laid upon that
40    transaction by the democratic press throughout the union! It is a public transaction, of a public man, involving public interests—not to say the public honor of the highest legislative body in the land, through one of its members—and thus fit for public comment. . . . . . We heartily approve and endorse the following sentiments of a late Boston Chronotype:
45
    OUR   BRIBED SENATOR.—Mr. Webster is the first senator in this country who has openly taken from the wealthy of Massachusetts a reward for continuing in the senate of the United States, said to be the most ‘‘dignified in the world.’’ It is said by the newspapers—and I think it has
    
  	257


never been denied—that he and his wife have the interest ($6,000) of $100,000 secured for their lives. This is over and above his pay as senator.
    The contributors to this fund I suppose to be all whigs, to be in favor of the protective policy, and most probably, without exception, ‘‘great capitalists.’’ Now is not Mr. Webster to all intents
and purposes their paid counsel? Is he not engaged to support their views—their case? Although    5 he may have the reward so placed as not to prevent him from changing his opinion, he may be inflexible—and being a lawyer, and not remarkable for the sturdiness with which he cherishes his opinions, he may remain true to his clients. But is not the state defrauded? Did it elect him to maintain a set of opinions that he did not believe,  or to maintain a set that he did believe?
    Suppose Mr. Webster to become a convert to free trade whilst the contributors are still tariff  10 men—whilst they have their interest involved in the protective system, and  are able only by being thus involved to pay their respective shares to this suppletory fund; he must either run counter to his convictions and conceal the change, or confess it, and use their money to support
him  whilst he tries to destroy their doctrines.
Although Mr. Webster ’s taking the money at all, furnishes a strong probability that he will  15
never change, yet his actual change would not be more wonderful than changes  which  he,
perhaps, has already made. It would not be more marvellous than the change which the papers
say  has come over Sir Robert Peel on the same subject.



20

April 23, 1847
The Ambition to ‘Make a Show’ in Dress—
Hints to Brooklyn Young Women and Men
25
    All people should endeavor to dress neatly, and with scrupulous cleanliness and tidiness. But the ambition—particularly in young people—to have shining new clothes, is of the paltriest and most vulgar kind. You rarely see a young man or woman of real good sense, and possessing any true accomplishments, who makes a marked
display in the way of apparel. Generally speaking, in nature, the gaudiest objects have  30 the least real worth. The peacock is not really as valuable as the despised goose; the mackaw ‘‘can’t begin’’ with the plain-looking nightingale. . . . . . . We all like to see a well-dressed young woman or man; that is one whose clothes are gracefully made, are plain, clean, full, and not awkward. But the mere displayer of shining cloth, with an attractive look from top to toe, is not likely to please the sober judgment. . . . . Hear  35 what  somebody  says  of  that  class  whose  life  is  nothing  but  a  devotion  to  the appearance of their persons:

    LIFE    OF  A  DANDY.—He gets up leisurely, breakfasts comfortably, reads the paper regularly, dresses  fashionably,  eats  a  tart  gravely,  talks  superfluously,  kills  time  indifferently,  sups elegantly, goes to bed stupidly, and lives uselessly.	40





April 23, 1847


Poverty—A Scene in New York	45


    A man and his wife named Henrian, so feeble that they could not walk, were taken from the steps of a house in the 11th Ward, Tuesday night, and conveyed to the
    
258	  


alms house. They had lately arrived from Ireland, lost three children on the passage, and when taken charge of by the officers, the father had a dying child in his arms, while the mother was holding another which was already dead! with sufficient clothes hardly to cover their backs, without one cent, without home or friends, they had laid
5    themselves down to die! And this is a specimen of the pictures almost daily presented in that city!





10    April 24, 1847


Reminiscences of the Slave Trade


    In 1811 there was a slave-market in full operation in Wall-street. Yankee Doodle often thinks he still hears the whip and the groans of the victims as he goes through this
15    famous locality. Indeed, there are as many slaves there as ever, only they belong to one master—the———whew!





20    April 26, 1847



Anti-Democratic Bearing of Scott’s Novels


The novels of Walter Scott are in some respects unsurpassed—but cannot be
25    altogether praised.—This great writer delineates kings and queens and celebrated
historic personages’ more private life, perhaps even better where he excites every
reader ’s profoundest sympathy by their losses, their defeats in war, or their severe
calamities. Nor does he fail in a lower sphere. Who will not follow Jeanie Deans with
every warm feeling on her adventurous journey to London? And upon the whole, we
30    think the ‘‘Heart of Mid Lothian,’’ the best of the great North Man’s productions.
Considered artistically it is certainly faultless; and judging by our own heart while
reading it, (as we have done four or five times) there are no others more capable of
deeply interesting the brain that peruses it.
But Scott was a tory and a high church and state man. The impression after
35    reading any of his fictions where monarchs or nobles compare with patriots and
peasants, is dangerous to the latter and favorable to the former. In the long line of those
warriors for liberty, and those large hearted lovers of men before classes of men, which
English history has recorded upon its annals, and which form for the fast anchored isle
a far greater glory than her first Richard, or her tyrannical Stuarts, Scott has not
40    thought one fit to be illustrated by his pen. In him as in Shakspere, (though in a totally
different method) ‘‘there’s such divinity does hedge a king,’’ as makes them something
more than mortal—and though this way of description may be good for poets or
loyalists, it is poisonous for freemen. The historical characters of Scott’s books, too, are
not  the  characters  of  truth.  He  frequently  gets  the  shadow  on  the  wrong  face.
45    Cromwell,  for  instance,  was  in  the  main,  and  even  with  severe  faults,  a  heroic
champion of his countrymen’s rights—and the young Stuart was from top to toe a
licentious, selfish, deceitful, and unprincipled man, giving his fastest friends to the axe

  	259


and his subjects to plunder, when a spark of true manly nerve would have saved both. But the inference to be drawn from Scott’s representation of these two men makes the villain  a  good  natured  pleasant  gentleman,  and  the  honest  ruler  a  blood-seeking hypocrite! Shame on such truckling! It is a stain black enough, added to his atrocious maligning of Napoleon, to render his brightest excellence murky!	5




April 27, 1847
10
Rights of Southern Freemen As Well As Northern Freemen—
Mr. Calhoun’s Speech

In the speech of Mr. Calhoun delivered at Charleston in March last he says:

    ‘‘Indeed, after all that has occurred during the last twelve months, it would be almost idiotic  15 to doubt, that a large majority of both parties in the non-slaveholding states, have come to a fixed determination to appropriate all the territories of the United States, now possessed, or hereafter
to  be acquired, to themselves, to the entire exclusion of the slaveholding states.’’

 Now is it not strange that a man of the conceded ability of Mr. Calhoun, of his reputed precision of logic and accuracy of expression, should use language like this?  20
‘‘The entire exclusion of the slaveholding states!’’ Mr. Calhoun surely cannot mean what he says. He speaks as though the people of the slaveholding states were all slaveholders. This is any thing but true. In every slaveholding state, we believe, except perhaps South  Carolina,  a  majority  of  the  white  freemen  are  non-slaveholders.  Will  the exclusion of slavery from the new territory deter them from going with their axes and  25 their ploughs into its forests, and making their houses upon its unfurrowed surface? Certainly not. They will go with their free brethren from the north and, not deeming labor degrading, will rear states which will prosper and become mighty under the power of free arms and stout hearts. The only persons who will be excluded will be the aristocracy of the south—the men who work only with other men’s hands. If they  30 cannot condescend to labor, to fell the forests and to plough the fields with their own hands, but must have slaves to do what the yeomanry of the north and the majority of white men at the south regard as a proud, virtuous and noble calling—why then they
can stay away; and it is difficult to see where the hardship lies of permitting them to do
so. If they are willing to regard labor as honorable and to work like the rest of us, they  35
can go into the new territory and find it open to them as it is to the rest who work for a
living. But no—they insist that at the outset freemen shall be excluded to enable them to
monopolize the land and cultivate it by their slaves. Let us see if this is not the true
state  of  the  case.  From  the  northern  and  eastern  states  a  constant  tide  of  brave,
industrious and energetic freemen is flowing to the new territory. Such has been the  40
case for the last fifty years, and such men have founded and matured the great—
nations,  we  had  almost  said—of  Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois,  Michigan,  &c.  Into  those
regions have rushed, too, thousands and tens of thousands of free men from the slave-
holding  states  who  have  been  eager  to  labor  where  they  could  do  so  without
degradation. Tens and hundreds of thousands more like them from the east, north and  45
south, will be eager to occupy the new territory which may be acquired from Mexico, if

260	  


they can go and not find themselves the equals only of negro slaves. Where the land is cultivated by slaves it is not also cultivated by freemen. It is not in South Carolina and Virginia and the other slave states, respectable (at any rate it is not so practically regarded) for white men to labor on land.
5		The voice of the north proclaims that labor must not be degraded. The young men of the free states must not be shut out from the new domain (where slavery does not now exist) by the introduction of an institution which will render their honorable industry no longer respectable. Slavery must not exact too much from the democracy of the north. That democracy has been faithful to the ‘‘compromises of the constitution’’ by
10    protecting  the  institution  of  slavery  (uncongenial  as  that  institution  is  to  all  the instincts and sympathies of democracy) within the limits that the constitution found it; and it will be the part of wisdom in its advocates not to weaken its security by further and unreasonable exactions. Instead of a generous recognition of the tolerant spirit with which the north has regarded the institution in the states where it exists, and has
15    conceded almost every thing of power and office and station to the slaveholding states, that spirit is requited much too often by flings and imputations of meanness and of a mercenary spirit, not likely to perpetuate northern forbearance. Witness the following extract from Mr. Calhoun’s speech:

‘‘Fortunately,  then,  the  crusade  against  our  domestic  institution  does  not  originate  in
20    hostility of interests. If it did, the possibility of arresting the threatened danger, and  saving
ourselves, short of a disrupture of union, would be altogether hopeless; so  predominant is the
regard for interest in those states, over all other  considerations.’’

    Was it a mean or mercenary spirit that has induced the democracy of the north to grant the presidency, with all its power and patronage, to the south, ever since the
25    foundation of the government, with the exception of a single term? On the other hand might we not with truth charge faithlessness and utter cupidity to the south? It has monopolized by an immense disproportion the offices of the government. It proved faithless to the democracy of the north in respect to Mr. Van Buren. It is entirely unreliable as to Mr. Wright. Mr. Calhoun is quite right in his conclusion that ‘‘it would
30    be almost idiotic to doubt, that a large majority of both parties in the non-slaveholding states have come to a fixed determination’’ in respect to the new territory—but is wrong in saying that determination is to exclude the people of the slave states. It is to throw the territory open on equal terms to the people of the north and of the south.

35



April 30, 1847


[Notices]


40		Hunt’s Merchants’ magazine for May, contains elaborate and interesting articles on the ‘wealth of Massachusetts,’ on ‘annuities, life insurance, etc.,’ and on the ‘coal and iron trade,’ etc. This periodical now takes its position among the standard works of the time.
Bulwer ’s Zanoni has been issued—a new edition of it—in the most convenient
45    form imaginable, by the Harpers, in the way of two vols. at twenty-five cents each.
This novel is a wild, vague affair—and though there are glimpses of true fire showing

  	261


through it now and then, the feeling at the end is a sort of dissatisfaction—either with the characters or the author.





April 30, 1847

5

Serious Works


    D’Aubigne’s ‘History of the Reformation of the sixteenth century.’—(Tract society edition, four vols., 150 Nassau st. N. Y.) is printed and bound in very fair style, and  10 embellished by engravings in the beginning of each volume. [Details about work omitted—25 ll.]
    —For general use, and for the particular use of educational libraries, the Harpers have issued a four volume edition of Dr. Duncan’s ‘Sacred philosophy of the seasons.’ Persons of sound judgment must be pleased that the demand in the libraries alluded  15 to, and very largely in other ways, is for such solid and moral works; and in the same channel comparatively little for the more flippant reading of the day. A strong current
of sense and truth must ever be circulating in that community which welcomes those really useful and well written books forming the principal part of the ten thousand district libraries of this state. . . . . . . [Details about work omitted—22 1⁄2     ll.]	20
    Family Prayers, &c., with a family commentary upon the sermon on the mount, by the late Henry Thornton, M. P., comes to us from Stanford & Swords, N. Y. That the work is edited here by bishop Eastburn of Massachusetts, is no small recommendation; but its best recommendation is itself. We have seldom perused a book of this class in which
the tone was so chastely and devoutly eloquent—the eloquence not of mere style, but  25 of the thoughts and passions aneath it. Bishop Eastburn fitly says of its author that his name is ‘‘familiar not to England only, but to the world—and indissolubly associated with our thoughts of whatever is enlarged in christian beneficence, sound in religious views, and beautiful in consistency of daily practice.’’ . . . . . . The reader must not class this fine work among the common manuals of forms. It deserves a far higher and  30 nobler place. It is unsurpassed by anything of its scope or purport; and may be safely said to stand alone in its exceeding merits as a minor but fit aid in the teachings of the
one Great Book which has no full counterpart. In saying that every family should have a copy of these ‘Prayers,’ we mean the phrase not to be taken in the same way of one of
the common places of such expressions.	35





May 3, 1847


Encouragement to the Democrat	40


    From the days of Washington, the course of the democratic party has been a course of success and triumph. We do not mean that our party has succeeded in every election—because there are very many minor contests, and some of vast importance, in which the conservatives, (under their various names,) carried the day. But we mean to  45 say that our principles have advanced, with a steady and sure progress. Every year has added something to our political or commercial knowledge; and decreased, thus, the
    
262	  


hopes of the more illiberal among us; by whom we mean the citizens—many of them as candid and well-wishing as any others—who think that every thing is to be regu- lated by law. . . . . . . . . And it is in this progress, and this invariable addition to the good, and diminution of the bad, that we find the auguries of the future. The democ-
5    racy must still succeed. Even the intelligent whigs will probably acknowledge this; and with all their distrust of the ‘common people’ and of the integrity and intelligence of the masses, will hardly so degrade their own judgment, as to deny the likelihood of those masses, and the party they attach to, wielding political sway in the aggregate. Such thoughts as these are well to dwell upon: the lover of his fellows, and of the
10    serene principles of political truth, will always find joy and encouragement in them.





May 3, 1847
15


How Brooklyn Will Look, Soon


    Already, this beautiful morning, (3d,) the horse-chestnuts have burst out their bright green leaves—the peach trees and the early cherries are in bloom—the lilacs have donned their umbrage—and the moist fresh grass is thick enough, wherever the
20    earth will allow it to grow in any fertility! Yes; spring is at her maturity, and will soon yield to the more warm-breathed summer. Then Brooklyn will be in its pride and glory. Then in all the blocks between Fulton street and the heights, will lie a dreamy shady quiet, under the trees that line the walks there, and through the ample yards. Then Brooklyn will have its green robes about its shoulders, and its skirts will be not a little
25    draggled with the wet dews when it walks out in the morning.
But are we not to have a clean face for Brooklyn, too? Are not the streets to be
thoroughly cleansed, for once at least, that we may see the good dame in her true
beauty? We beseech you, good inspector gentlemen, and most ‘efficient’ mayor! we
beseech you for such a devoutly to be wished for consummation!
30




May 3, 1847

35


[Book Notice]

    ‘Riches and honor,’ a small volume containing a ‘New England story,’ comes to us by the politeness of Mr. Smith, 202 Fulton street. The tale has a moral tendency, is not badly told, and the typographical execution is very fair: it is embellished with wood engravings.
40




May 3, 1847

45


Benefit of Bathing

    People are not half aware of the benefits of regular bathing—a practice which should be ‘got into’ by every man, woman, and child of the land. The cold bath is best,
    
  	263


(winter and summer,) for healthy persons—with this proviso: not to bathe in it when the body is chilled, but when it has a healthy glow of warmth. This is an important item. At first, and for those to whom bathing is new, tepid water will be best—soon and gradually to be superseded by water of the natural temperature. Nor is any thing absolutely necessary to a bath, except a pitcher of water in one’s room, a sponge and a	5 towel; by using these daily, one will feel better and live longer. [Remarks on subject from exchange paper omitted—49 ll.]





May 4, 1847

10

[Book Notice]


    PALEY’S  NATURAL  THEOLOGY.—(Harper ’s new edition).—If the undevout astrono- mer is mad, the undevout physiologist is equally so. For all the great  harmony of  15 purpose evinced in the structure and movements of worlds, is evinced—to our mind quite as wonderfully—in the structure of the frames of animals and other growing life.
Dr. Paley’s ‘Natural theology’ but systematises this great point, and presents a long and various array of links in the connection of it. That this systematising has been well done, the learned have decided long ago. And even the fact that such men as Lord  20
Brougham and Sir Charles Bell have thought it not beneath them to play the part as usher, in a new edition of the book, tells a great deal of its claims. . . . . . So much for the merits of this well known work; but it has its demerits, too. Some of the argu- ments are capable of being extended so high, as to o’erleap themselves—and if not
absolutely to fall on the other side, at least to prove a good deal more than the author  25 intends. Moreover, the scope of the philosophy of Dr. Paley is hardly ample enough to suit this age: it is somewhat strange that he went so far, and that he did not go a little farther.

30



May 5, 1847


Suggestions Caused by the Murder


    The minds of our citizens, with but few exceptions, are painfully aroused, in  35 connection with the recent murder of Mr. Hotchkiss, in south Brooklyn. It is always customary, on such occasions, to attribute general blame or remissness somewhere, and  suggest various remedies to the same; but here the broad fact is so glaringly evident that Brooklyn has a most inefficient police system, (we don’t find fault with the
ten or twelve marshals and watchmen for it, but with the system,) that no excuse can  40 stave off the argument for reform. We invite the attention of the authorities to the means  of  such  reform.  Let  the  common  council  appoint  its  best  members  into  a committee to suggest a plan for such reform—and that forthwith. . . . . . We are no alarmists;  but  really  this  jeopardizing  of  people’s  lives  and  property  through  the laxness of the officers and laws to take the means of safety, has obtained sway long  45 enough and too long among us. . . . . . And it is strange that such apathy exists to one
of the best means, if not the best general means, for preventing night crime in cities—

264	  


and that is brilliantly lighted streets, kept lighted all night. Thieves dread the lamps; not such lamps as our Brooklyn ones, but those that are lamps. This means—with an active watch force, that will stir about well, and not dawdle half asleep in corners— would almost remove the startling crimes lately rife among us. . . . . . It suggests itself
5    to us at the same time, whether there should not be good watchmen, paid a good price; a man can’t take a mere pittance, and work as though he had reasonable wages. Finally, we commend the whole subject to the citizens and the municipal authorities, asking for it deep attention—and proferring our columns as the medium of all reasonable suggestions on it.
10




May 5, 1847

15


[Book Notices]

    ‘Omoo,’ the new work (Harpers, pub.) by Mr. Melville, author of ‘Typee,’ affords two well printed volumes of the most readable sort of reading. The question whether these stories be authentic or not has, of course, not so much to do with their interest. One  can  revel  in  such  a  richly  good  natured  style,  if  nothing  else.  We  therefore
20    recommend this ‘narrative of adventures in the south seas,’ as thorough entertainment— not so light as to be tossed aside for its flippancy, nor so profound as to be tiresome. All books have their office—and this a very side one.
    ‘Wild sports of the west,’ (new edition, Harpers,) has much of the dashy style which made its author ’s first work, ‘Stories of Waterloo,’ so popular. There are several daring
25    adventures related here, and many things that will be interesting not only to sports- men but tame citizens who never fire guns.





30    May 5, 1847



[‘‘The Things Which We Have Learned’’]


The things which we have learned in our childhood grow up with our souls, and
35    unite themselves to it.





May 11, 1847
40


[Book Notices]


    ‘ARTHUR  MARTIN; or, the mother ’s trials,’ is the name of the second number  of Harpers’ new ‘fireside library’—a series which begins so well, as to make its prospects fair enough for the future. The book is written by Mr. Burdett, of the New York press—
45    a clever writer, and who evidently improves at every trial. In continuation of the same series, the Harpers will soon issue ‘the Lawyer ’s daughter,’ and ‘the good Genius that

  	265


turned all to gold’. . . . . . . . . . . . ‘Scripture illustrated,’ (same pub.) is another work of merit. It is intended for youth principally. (T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton st., Brooklyn.)





May 12, 1847

5

Vulgar and Brutal Affair


    The prize fight between Caunt and Sullivan came off on Tuesday morning at 9 o’clock, at Harper ’s ferry. Seven rounds were fought in twelve minutes; Sullivan  10 winning from the start. A wrangle ensued, but the referee gave his decision in favor of Sullivan. Caunt is badly beaten. A most disgusting piece of work.





May 15, 1847

15

Brooklyn Normal Institute


    We have long been impressed with the idea—and have advanced it frequently through these columns—that the head and front and soul of education, consist in  20 having the proper sort of teachers; in having well drilled, properly educated, and mentally disciplined men and women. The establishment among us, therefore, of a normal institute, we greet with sincere pleasure; and having during the past month been favored with many interviews with Mr. Wright, the principal—and possessing satisfactory means of judging his merits for the station—we are convinced that those  25 merits are of a high order, and that all persons of either sex who engage under his tuition for the noble profession of teachers, will receive ample justice. Mr. Wright’s manners are agreeable; his knowledge, from the testimonials we have, we doubt not is varied;—and were we going into the profession, we should not hesitate to engage under him.	30




May 17, 1847
35
‘Minor Morals,’ or Rules for Youths’ Behaviour:
from the Maxims of Washington

In the writings of Washington, which have been published, there is a list of rules
for behaviour, which he appears to have jotted down while yet a very young man.  40
They may strike the refined as having a homely old-fashioned aspect; but they contain
a good deal of the essence of true politeness, for all that. Among these, written in his
own hand, is a series of maxims, under the head of ‘‘rules of civility and decent
behavior in company and conversation.’’ Of these there are one hundred and ten. The
only specimens published we extract, and agree with Mr. Sparks in the opinion, that  45
‘‘whoever has studied the character of Washington, will be persuaded that some of its

266	  


most prominent features took their shape from the rules which he thus early selected and adopted as his guide.’’
[Forty-two ‘‘Rules for Behaviour ’’ omitted—110 ll.]

5



May 17, 1847


Books Lately Published


10		That excellent series, Harpers’ new miscellany, adds another number, the 24th, in the ‘Orators of the Age,’—which comprises sketches of Macauley, Peel, Wellington, Lord J. Russel, Duke of Wellington, Lyndhurst, Morpeth, Earl Grey, Palmerston, Sir J. Graham, &c., &c. A fair train of parliamentary history may be gleaned from these sketches, as well as much interesting personal incident and anecdote. The sketch of
15    Peel is most graphically written.
Story on the Constitution, (Harpers, pub.) is a work which should be introduced,
(democratised a little,) into every school, and put before every American young man.
Nor are there many grown persons who could not be profited by reading it. For there
is a lamentable deficiency of the elementary knowledge of our republican constitution,
20    among our citizens. This is the sadder, as the beauty and grandeur of that code are
plainer and brighter, the more it is studied.
‘Directions for cooking pleasant and wholesome food: Dr. Oldcoock’s receipt book,’
(Harpers,) is a work from which we intend to make liberal extracts. Attached to each
receipt is a note, describing the wholesomeness or unwholesomeness of the dish—a
25    capital directory! [T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton st.]





May 18, 1847
30


How Matters Are Going On, Abroad


    The day-dawn of rational freedom is accompanied by a most encouraging bright- ness, just now. If it be not presumptuous to make such a suggestion, it seems as though Providence, through adversity, suffering, and other depression, were preparing the
35    way for the future good of the generations of Europe—for lifting them out of that mere animal existence—and bad enough at that—in which the masses for ages have been entangled. Never have such rapid strides been made toward something like popular liberty, in Europe, as are now being made; not so much by the volition of the common people themselves, but by circumstances. It is as though the great wronged
40    Genius of our race had grown a-weary of oppression and deceit in government, (as well she may!) and had interceded with the Highest to work forth events which should help to birth the good chances for man. And yet not so: as in the august harmony of God’s works—the mighty system of causes and effects—such a state as has existed among the monarchies of Europe, could hardly have produced any other than such
45    results.
Among the most important of the items by the foreign arrival, appear to us to be
the conspiracy against the Roman Pope, and the early dissolution of Mr. O’Connell.

  	267


With regard to the latter event all parties agree in attributing as a consequence of it, the probable yielding of many obstacles which beset the cause of Ireland, during the Liberator ’s life-time—and the harmonizing of factions among the repealers them- selves. It is very frequently thus with a great reformer—one who battles against wide
but deeply rooted evils. To such it is often as to the Jew in the legend, who died just as	5 his long and toilsome pilgrimage had brought him within the dim sight of the holy city’s walls. [Quotations giving details about O’Connell’s health omitted—22 ll.]
    The neighbors of Rome are provoked and terrified at the doings of the Pope—the most glorious ecclesiastic that ever sat in the sacred chair!
[First part of quotation omitted—15 ll.]	10

    The Semaphore de Marseilles publishes a letter from Rome which states that the greatest joy prevailed in that capital in consequence of a circular published by the Pope on the 19th instant, inviting the different provinces to send representatives to Rome to discuss with the government measures for the improvement of the local administrations, and to aid his holiness in improving
the position of the population. Every person in Rome sees in this circular the foundation of a  15
national  representation, and their delight is inexpressible.
According to the Felsinco (Bologna journal,) of the 22nd ult., the grand duke of  Tuscany,
taking example by the Pope, was on the point of adopting a liberal and progressive system of
administration.
20




May 18, 1847


[Literary Notice]
25

    Williams & co. 24 Ann st., New York, have issued Martin the Foundling complete in one volume. In many respects, this is Sue’s best work. Some points of its morality are weak, and the young reader should be on his guard against them; particularly as the book is so full of life and interest that it will doubtless have a large circulation.
30




May 18, 1847


[Literary Notice]
35

    No. 158 of the Living Age comes to us from Berford & co. (late Taylor & co.) 2 Astor house New York. It is filled with noble reading.





May 19, 1847

40

Brooklyn Sunday School Children


    The streets of our city were thronged in quite every direction yesterday afternoon, with that pleasantest of sights, happy-looking and well dressed children. According to  45 appearance, they met at their various schools, and had processions to their churches, where there were appropriate exercises—and then the children returned through the
    
268	  


streets  to  the  places  of  starting,  and  partook  of  refreshments  previous  to  going home. . . . . . . The sight of these pleasant girls and boys, marching athwart the city in every direction, was a sight to make a man’s, (or woman’s) heart grow gentler and more sympathetic. Blessings on Sunday schools! and on all other schools too!
5




May 20, 1847

10


Liberality, Indeed!

    The factory operatives in Cabotville and Chicopee Falls, are to have 45 minutes to eat their breakfast and dinner, instead of 30 as heretofore.




15
May 20, 1847



[Literary Notices]


Mrs. Fanny Kemble Butler ’s ‘Year of consolation’ has been printed by Wiley &
20    Putnam, New York, in one neat volume, uniform with their general publications. The
authoress is one of the most erratic women that ever lived; which is saying a most
prodigious deal! In her writings she has no comparative degree—but considerable of
the positive; and more considerable of the superlative. . . . . In this ‘year,’ (at Rome,)
there  are  several  interesting  chapters—and  here  and  there  a  passage  of  sterling
25    beauty—sometimes, even, an original thought. And it is remarkable how the helter-
skelter style of such books—skipping, and hopping—disdainful, shallow, sentimental,
gossipy, and many other things beside—grows upon the reader. Thus such works are
refreshing; for solid and heavy food is not craved always by the stomach.
The May Democratic Review, (T. P. Kettell, 142 Fulton street, New York,) contains a
30    portrait of Mr. Secretary Walker, and a spirited variety of articles—some of them
written with great force. An excellent number!





35    May 22, 1847


Disunion


    Thinking, as we do, that hardly any evil which could be inflicted on the people of this hemisphere, and the cause of freedom all over the world, would be so great as the
40  disunion of these states—their parting in bitterness and ill-blood—we believe it incumbent on every democrat always to bear testimony in the same spirit and the same words, as one now in heaven—‘‘the union! it must and shall be preserved!’’ We care very little what the ostensible cause may be—or what fanatics (of which there are various kinds, in wide removes,) may state it to be. Any man, with ordinary
45    judgment must know, that the disjunction of the union would sow a prolific crop of horrors and evils, like dreary night, compared to which the others are but as a daylight cloud.
[Quotation by anonymous writer against disunion omitted—7 ll.]

  	269




May 22, 1847


[Colonel Jefferson Davis]


The promotion of Col. Jefferson Davis, who commanded the Mississippi regiment
of fire-eaters in the battles of Monterey and Buena Vista, to the rank of brigadier	5
general, in place of Gen. Pillow, promoted, will give satisfaction to the friends of the
service throughout the country. A braver man never wielded a sword. The extraordi-
nary efficiency of the Mississippi regiment is doubtless due in a measure to the spirit of
their leader.
10




May 28, 1847


Mournful Matter!
15

    Callous must be the heart, and blunted the soul, that can move, at the present time, among the manufacturing places, (all branches,) and operatives, not only in the northeast, but in the middle states, as well as the west and south, without feelings harrowed to their roots with agony and horror! The wan and emaciated crowds of once happy workmen—now, alas! with no employment, no money, and not even a  20 cold potato to eat, appear like blights and mildews on the surface of this land of once happy homes. Mournful sight! How the eye aches to look upon it! How sickening to think of the change from the healthful activity of a few years since! What will become
of the pale drooping wives, and the skeleton-looking children, of those unemployed workmen? ‘Where are they a-going to?’	25
    It appears that in the largest manufacturing town of New England, the people have very generally been obliged to subsist for several weeks past on whatever they could pick up, old shoes, cast off petticoats, (tarred rope was considered a great luxury,) and such like. It is known that the ravenous and unsatisfied appetites of these miserable wretches were first turned to the raw wool, cotton and flax, in the places of  30 storage: of these there were immense quantities, and the owners, (those who remained alive—at least three fourths of them having died either of grief, despair or suicide,)—
the owners were perfectly willing that the ‘raw material’ (oh, that Mr. Baps could but know it!) should be disposed of in that way. It is said, moreover, that some very remarkable physiological results have come to pass from the foregoing fact which we  35 shall treat upon at another time.
    A dreary silence broods like a spirit of death, over those regions—silence broken only by the occasional fall of a brick from the dismantled walls; or the downfall of an unused chimney, long strangers to the sounds of life and occupation; or by the wheezy groan of a starved workman, who has crawled out from his tottering roof, to die in the  40 open air and sunshine: or by the lamentable wail of some little baby whose afflicted parents were unable to procure it any supper. Grass grows athwart the paving stones
in the streets, and moss on the shingled roofs. The pump handles at the corners are stiff on  their hinges, because nobody comes to pump. Indeed take it altogether it is a peculiarly distressing sight.	45
    Occasionally wandering through the ruins of the manufacturing towns, may be seen some gentlemen with wild and distorted visage, and agonised gestures, exclaim- ing in tones of soul-piercing pathos, ‘‘I to-o-o-o-ld you so!’’
    
270	  




May 31, 1847


Book World


‘Martin the Foundling’: publisher, Williams, 24 Ann street, New York, (T. D. Smith,
5    202 Fulton street, Brooklyn.) Perhaps no work has yet been written, of what are called
novels, which more fully exhibits the potency of the romancer, to do good, in a certain
way  than  this!  It  cuts  into  the  very  heart—the  sore,  gangrened,  suffering,  guilty
heart—of that immense social evil which has accumulated for long and artificial ages
over the states of Europe; exposes the monstrous effect of the undue distribution of
10    wealth, by unnatural means, which prevails in the monarchies there—and with the
most  daring  boldness  pourtrays  facts,  which—with  all  their  repulsiveness  to  the
delicate sense, and while the over-prudish may frown—are facts; and, being so, are as
necessary to be exposed to strong light, as the putrifying flesh on which the surgeon is
to perform a life saving operation! Little credence have we in that cant of modesty, (in
15    this very thing proving its own falseness,) which is shocked at the relation of miserable
and vile things—not at the truths themselves; which latter, of course, if they exist, must
be known and deliberated on, before they can be remedied. That such things as form
the plot of ‘Martin the foundling’ really and widely exist in France, we believe nobody
denies: but we have many grave and reverend seniors among us, who turn with horror
20    from any bringing up of narratives about them to the surface. Would they rather the
guilt  and  pain  should  go  on  growing  farther  and  stronger  under  the  surface?
. . . . . . . . . . . . We like this book well, and hope it will be read widely. It is a democratic
book. Much of the groundwork of ‘Martin,’ is comprised in the following axioms,
which we gather from its pages: ‘‘Do what you ought, good will come of it,’’—‘‘there is
25    no honest situation in life without dignity,’’—‘‘no one has a (moral) right to superfluities,
so long as any one is without the necessaries of life.’’
Robert Carter, at 58 Canal street, New York, has published a second edition of the
Rev.  Mr.  Turnbull’s  ‘Genius  of  Scotland,  or  sketches  of  Scottish  scenery,  literature  and
religion.’ Without making pretensions to the highest order of books of its design, this is
30    yet a work of very considerable excellence. Its style is animated, flowing, cheerful, and
clear. There are many personal sketches—among the best being those of Knox, Burns,
Wilson,  Chalmers,  Bruce,  the  Ettrick  shepherd,  and  Sir  Walter  Scott.  Amid  these
portraitures of character, come agreeable variations, in the way of incidents during
travel, local descriptions, antiquarian reminiscences, and so on. To a Scotchman we can
35    well imagine how precious such a volume must be; even as an American we find the
book very readable and interesting.
The Lawyer’s daughter, by Professor Alden, forms the latest member of that richly
ushered series ‘Harpers’ fireside library.’ We have before spoken in the highest terms
of Alden’s writings: they are not brilliant in the way of genius, but they are always
40    charming for their good sense and truth to nature, always inculcate a moral, and leave
no reader at the end of perusing them without a hint toward good. Such books deserve
well of criticism, for they perform a wide and deep benefit in the sphere of their
operation. . . . . . . . . . . .  In  tasty  colored  covers,  and  with  gilt  edging,  and  clean,
spaced type, this series will surely gain a footing among the welcomed arrivals at
45    parlors, and in the domestic circle. (Smith, 202 Fulton street, Brooklyn.)
The Shakspeare novels: No. 1. the youth of Shakspeare. Burgess & Stringer, 222
Broadway, New York, have here commenced reprinting, in tasty form, Mr. Williams’s,
(at London,) series of tales of the Elizabethan era, entitled ‘the Shakspeare novels.’ The
author of the series brings a new name into the field; but there is evidently mettle in

  	271


him, and, barring a tinge of mannerism, we like his method thus far. The series involves two more works, ‘Shakspeare and his friends,’ and ‘the Secret Passion.’ We expect much from the middle link in this triplet—the first of the latter two.
Rev. Thomas Adams’s writings have been published by Robert Carter, as follows:
‘the Three Divine Sisters, Faith, Hope, and Charity—the Leaven, or a direction to	5
heaven—Semper Idem, or the immutable mercy of Jesus Christ—heaven’s gate—
majesty in misery—the fool in his sport—the Christian’s walk—Love’s copy—God’s
bounty—politic hunting—the taming of the tongue.’ The first quality that will strike
the reader of these compositions is their antithetical style. They abound in the terse,
quaint, epigrammatic phraseology of the earlier part of the 17th century, as in the  10
doctrinal  writings  then.  Such  works  are  of  course  more  particularly  valuable  to
theological readers.
Remains of the Rev. Wm. Jackson, late rector of St. Paul’s church, Louisville, Ky., with
a brief sketch of his life and character: publishers, Stanford and Swords, 139 Broadway,
New York. A collection, handsomely printed, of the sermons of an orthodox divine—  15
and a not uninteresting biography of him: the arguments in behalf of the usual views
are here presented, sometimes with remarkable force and clearness. The style of the
sermons is warm and nervous—the language scholarly and chaste.
Chambers’s Cyclopædia of English literature; published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln,
Boston, in numbers at 25 cents each: (W. H. Graham, New York.) We have before  20
spoken in high terms of this serial, presenting, as it does, in convenient and cheap form
a consecutive gathering of the genius and beauty whereof the English language has
been made the medium. No. 9 gives a fine mezzotint, by Sartain, of Dr. Johnson. No. 10
is also printed.
Harpers’ Pictorial England. This superb issue is verging towards its completion—  25
no. 23 being published, beginning the history of the reign of the first James. Take it
altogether, there is no better, fuller history of England than this.
Bogatsky’s Golden Treasury: Robert Carter, New York. A fine collection of excerpts,
illustrating texts from scripture, gathered mostly among old authors, wherever such
passages of a striking or instructive nature were to be found. Some of these extracts are  30
of remarkable beauty. They are on an infinite variety of subjects, and contain many bits
in verse. Few books are more worthy a place on the table of family reading. We have
marked some pieces for our Sunday column.
St. Giles and St. James; by Douglass Jerrold: publishers in New York, Burgess &
Stringer, 222 Broadway. Though we have read not all of this book, we have read far  35
enough to see that it has a holy object—which is to show that humanity is still human,
though in rags and crime and ignorance—a fact to which the world is yet widely
oblivious. We shall finish the perusal, and then write farther about it.
The third edition comes to us, (from the Harpers,) of ‘Memoirs of Baron Cuvier, by
Mrs. R. Lee,’ in cheap form, paper covers, price 25 cents. Of such a man as Cuvier, with  40
his world-wide fame, not more than deserved, as a naturalist and physiologist, the
materials to form a book are ample; and in this compilation great tact has been shown
to present as clear and full a history as is possible in the space. The book is recom-
mendable to young persons.
A practical treatise on the cultivation of the grape vine; published by H. Long, 32 Ann  45
street, N. Y. (Green & Baker, 69 1⁄2   Fulton st., Brooklyn agents,) is fully described by its
title page. The appendix which contains remarks on the best method of ‘bringing up’
the vine in the United States, is particularly useful. Every house should have a grape
vine attached to it.

272	  


    Creation; a sermon by T. B. Thayer; publisher, Hutchinson, 57 Fulton street, New York: (Smith, 202 Fulton, Brooklyn agent.) A noble discourse, from the text, ‘‘Mar- vellous are Thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well,’’ 139th psalm, 14th verse.
Supplement  to  the  handbook  of  Needlework;  by  Mrs.  Gaugain  and  Mrs.  Gore:
5    publishers in N. Y., Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway. To the ladies, such a work is of
course, highly useful—setting forth as it does, all the mysteries of netting, stitching,
cuffing, (yes cuffing,) scolloping, Russian crotchet-stitching, and so on.
Memoirs of a Physician; by Alexander Dumas: reprinted by Williams, 23 Ann street
N. Y. A wild, hurrying, exciting affair; full of its author ’s characteristics. It is to be
10    continued in parts.
The  Architect,  a  large  superb  quarto,  monthly  series  of  original  designs  for
domestic and ornamental cottages, connected with landscape gardening, adapted to
the United States, illustrated by drawings of ground plots, plans, perspective views,
elevations, sections, and details, by Wm. Ranlette, (W. H. Graham, publisher,) has
15    reached its 8th number. A first rate work of its design.
Democratic review, for May: T. P. Kettell, 142 Fulton st., N. Y. There is a good paper
in this issue, on the condition of Ireland—which would have been a still better, had
Rev. Mr. Giles’ lecture been taken as the text. The Democratic gives a portrait of Mr.
Secretary Walker.
20	American review, for May: George H. Colton, 118 Nassau st., N. Y. A tirade on the
twenty-ninth congress leads this number—an attempt in the style of Blackwood’s
political slashing—but as much like Blackwood as twine is like an anchor chain.
The June Columbian Magazine has some good engravings, and the usual variety of
literary matter.
25	Young  American’s  magazine  of  self-improvement:  Boston—George  W.  Light,  25
Cornhill.—The May number of this periodical contains a calm rejoinder—but effec-
tual, as far as it goes—to Mr. Phillips’s disunion sophistry in the preceding issue.
Living Age, No. 159 is received and for sale by Berford & co. (late W. Taylor,) 2
Astor house, New York.
30	Graham’s magazine, for June, has an admirable view, by Smillie, of the falls of
Toccoa, in Georgia—besides other embellishments.
Godey’s Lady’s Book for June, has views of the Girard buildings, in Philadelphia,
and of the old capitalist himself, with text, descriptive of the same. Mrs. Kirkland and
Miss Leslie have good contributions.
35	North American scenery; published in quarto numbers, at 25 cents, by H. Long &
brother, 32 Ann street, New York: (Green & Baker, 69 1⁄2   Fulton street, Brooklyn agents.)
Each part of this work contains four views, printed in tints, and eight pages of text.




40
June 1, 1847



The City of Dirt


Brooklyn bids fair to be christened the ensuing summer with the name of ‘the city
45    of dirt’—and what is worse, she will richly deserve such a name. In every direction,
over the streets and in the gutters, little is to be seen but filth, mud, and street refuse!
The unrivalled natural advantages of position in most all our Brooklyn thoroughfares—
they having a descent which washes itself at times—is an occasional remedy; but the

  	273


long drought, and the fact that the cold season, (when stuff accumulates in the streets,) is just over, make the surface, quite every where, a surface of nastiness, repulsiveness, and disease-generating decay. And yet there is not even the hint of ‘‘a better time a coming.’’ According to appearances, we are likely to spend the summer in the same
way.	5
What do you think is the munificent sum devoted by Brooklyn—a place almost as
big as Boston—to the great work of cleaning streets that stretch over a space as large as
the inhabited part of New York? A pitiful four thousand dollars! out of which has to
come the salary of two inspectors, at five hundred dollars each. Is it any wonder that
we have such dirty streets?	10
We are not prepared to suggest any particular plan by which the city can be kept
cleaner; except that at least three times the present appropriation is necessary, and a
regular body of men, with horses and carts, to be kept constantly at work, at least nine
months of the year, under supervision.—The mayor is tied by the appropriation; still it
seems to us he might do more. We are sure the public would support him, in any step  15
short of palpable illegality, in stretching his power to the utmost, in behalf of such a
purpose. The proper committees of the board should move actively in the same behalf.
If we go on as now, the name of ‘the city of dirt’ is sure to be fastened upon us.
—Since we have written the above, the streets have, in one sense, been put in fine
condition for the finishing operation of cleanliness by the heavy rain of yesterday and  20
last night. Some of them, however, are little but a mass of mud and liquid nastiness.
There is Myrtle avenue for instance; and there are many more in the same condition.





June 3, 1847

25

Young Men for Office


    Some of our whig neighbors are endeavoring to get up a little prejudice on the point that one of the democratic candidates, for a high judicial office, is not an old  30 man.—This is a poor point. History is full of examples proving that the noblest actions and mightiest reforms have been promulged and effected by young men. Grotius, a paragon of legal knowledge, was in large practice at seventeen, and became attorney general at twenty four. Paschal, of world wide fame, wrote what is surely one of his greatest works at sixteen. Bolingbroke and Pitt, names that filled Europe for many a  35 year, were both younger men, when prime ministers of England, than the personage whom the whigs deprecate as a county judge here! Indeed, the instances are innumer- able of young men having worthily filled the highest offices. . . . . . . . . . . . We have more to say on this subject in another column.
40




June 7, 1847


Religious Volumes
45

    Mr. Carter, 58 Canal st., New York, has published a pocket edition of Ambrose Serle’s Christian Remembrancer—a treatise divided into three parts, the first of which relates chiefly to ‘‘the word and work of God, in the redemption of souls by Jesus
    
274	  


Christ,’’ the next bearing on ‘‘the inward and practical experience of this redemption in the heart of the believer,’’—and the remaining section on the believer ’s ‘‘outward conversation and conduct with others.’’ Ample as these topics are, many of their im- portant points are condensed in the Remembrancer, which is intended as a serious
5    companion, which, though voiceless, is continually uttering sober counsel.
Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway, New York, have published a christian’s social,
individual, and family code of prayers, prepared by Dr. Berrian, under the title of Enter
into thy Closet. The author acknowledges much of his material to be gathered from the
liturgy, ancient litanies, the devotional writings of the older divines of the church of
10    England, and so forth. It is especially intended for ‘‘those who find it difficult to give
utterance to their devout feelings in their own language, even in the closet.’’
Conversations on the Parables of the New Testament: for the use of children; by rt. hon.
lord Stanley: (from the fifth London edition)—Stanford & Swords. A little book whose
object and scope are pourtrayed in its title. The style is fluent and plain, suitable to the
15    comprehension of young readers.
Tales of the Scottish peasantry is another of Mr. Carter ’s ‘Cabinet Library’ series.
Most of these narratives were written by a society of clergymen in Dumfriesshire, and
are in the same train with Hannah More’s famed moral tales. The first of them,
‘Maitland Smith,’ is an affecting narrative of truth. Young persons will receive good
20    from perusing such a book as this.





June 7, 1847
25


Paucity of News


Never were matters in the news line duller than they are to-day!




30
June 7, 1847



[The ‘‘Municipal Gazette’’]


We have been favored by the editor, Mr. E. Meriam, with a bound volume of the
35    Municipal Gazette, published last year in New York by the anti-assessment committee.
There is a mass of useful statistical information in this volume, comprising a full
history of the New York state constitutional convention of last year. There is also an
ample gathing of aerological items, many of them unusually interesting. We shall make
further reference to the work, when we examine it more.
40




June 7, 1847

45


‘‘The Inconstant One’’

    We receive a copy of ‘The Inconstant One,’ music published by Firth, 237 Broadway, N. York. The words are by Mrs. Embury, and the music by ‘G. W. A.’ The strain is pretty; but the sentiment of the lines is ‘positively shocking.’
    
  	275



June 9, 1847
The New Yorkers Wanting a Hundred Acre Park—Lesson
Which We Would Do Well to Learn, in Behalf of Fort Greene
5
    The following remarks are from a paper printed in a city where land is of twenty times the value of Brooklyn land! They speak in tones of most sarcastic truth and wisdom to the citizens of this place, in connection with the proposed Washington park. While New York—whose lots may in many places be paved with gold, and the paving
be not worth so much as the lots—while New York is acknowledging the necessity of  10 more  parks,  and  bigger  ones,  we  here  in  Brooklyn,  with  a  magnificent  natural promenade, one of the most beautiful in the world, waiting as it were only to be taken, with no trouble and small comparative expense, are apathetic enough to let the seasons
slip by, and still no definite success. Shame on the public servants who are so derelict! Shame on the sordid minds that can let some little petty jealousy, vindictive spite, or  15 miserly selfishness, influence them against one of the noblest improvements of its kind ever proposed on this continent!
[Quotation from New York Tribune omitted—54 ll.]

20



June 11, 1847


Fort Greene Park


    A score or more of petty plans are in circulation by a few persons to defeat the  25 popular and needed improvement of reserving Fort Greene for a free park, for the present and future generations. We invoke every citizen to judge for himself in the matter. Lives there a man or a woman, or child, who of a pleasant morning or evening
can walk over the crest of that time-honored battle-ground, its brow raised to heaven
as it is, and look far down and away on the innumerable close streets, with their  30
compact mass of houses—and say a willingness that that spot, too, shall be cut up and
made as the rest? If there be such a being, we should like to have a view of the part of
his organisation where the soul is supposed to reside!
The whole objection to the park is, a few dollars taxes. Mr. A. who lives a mile and
a half off, in the first ward, or somewhere else, deprecates the park because he will not  35
derive the benefit from it. (He may, however, if he but will.) Mr. B. don’t care about
parks; he is engrossed in his daily business. C., D., E., and F. for some similar reasons
are wrought upon to a similar feeling. But would not logic such as that in the two first
instances put down nearly all the public conveniences, which the city pays for? There
are very many people who are not interested in supporting the fire department—  40
people who pay taxes, but have no houses to burn down. Some don’t care a fig about
well paved streets—some for lamps—and so on. And yet every public improvement,
as an almost invariable thing, comes home in a profit to those who are taxed for it. The
citizens of the wards which are farthest from Fort Greene will be likely to go there as
often as, if not oftener than, the people who live in the immediate neighborhood. What  45
will be more common, should the improvement be effected, than the sight of small
parties, and large ones too, wending their way thither, at almost all times of the day,
during the summer? It is just the right distance for a comfortable walk. It would afford

276	  


an unrivalled spot for taking the ‘little people’ for a couple of hours’ taste of pure air, and play among the walks and grass.




5
June 11, 1847



New and Racy Work


We have been well entertained, for some hours, in perusing the work just issued
10    by Harper & brothers, New York, under the following title:

HOMES   AND  HAUNTS   of the most Eminent British Poets.—By William Howitt.  The illustrations engraved by H. W. Hewitt; in two volumes.
Mr. Howitt is well known to the literary world as one of the most pleasant writers
15    of our time. His ‘Rural life in England,’ ‘Book of the seasons,’ ‘Visits to remarkable
places,’ &c., &c., including his illustrations of life in Germany, have rendered his name
familiar to all who appreciate poetic feeling, correct taste and fine writing. In his
present work he has well manifested his position in the world of letters. He has given
us the biographies of Chaucer, Spenser, Shakespeare, Cowley, Milton, Butler, Dryden,
20    Addison, Gay, Pope, Swift, Thomson, Shenstone, Chatterton, Gray, Goldsmith, Burns,
Cowper, Mrs. Tighe, Keats, Shelley, Byron, Crabb, Hogg, Coleridge, Mrs. Hemans,
L. E. L., Scott, Campbell, Southey, Baillie, Wordsworth, Montgomery, Landor, Leigh
Hunt,  Rogers,  Moore,  Elliott,  Wilson,  Proctor  and  Tennyson—truly  a  magnificent
constellation! To such lofty subjects Mr. Howitt has brought great appreciation, love,
25    reverence,  and  discrimination.  Interwoven  with  the  biographies  he  has  given  us
sketches of the birth places and residences of the great poets, thereby affording scope
to his graphic and unsurpassed powers in describing the soft and exquisite beauties of
the rural districts of England. The green lanes stored with primroses and skirted by
blossoming hedges—the open woods with footpaths meandering through them—the
30    swelling meadows bright as emerald—the ivied churches with their grave yards filled
with mossy stones—the rustic villages—the lordly parks and haughty castles—the old
gray halls, broad flowing rivers and sweet winding streams, are all illustrated by his
pen and re-produced in the liveliest and most vivid tints in the mirror of his genius.
[Quotation omitted—30 ll.]
35




June 14, 1847

40


[Book Notice]

    A  singular  book,  lately  published,  has  been  courteously  furnished  us  this morning, the statements in whose pages might perhaps be discredited, were they not certified to be correct by two of our most respectable fellow citizens. We learn by this book the startling fact that there are several members of the Royal family residing in
45    Brooklyn—an item to which we call the attention of the monarchists of Mexico, and which precludes the necessity of going abroad for an occupant of the throne of our southern neighbor—when it gets one—(though at present it is more likely to be over-

  	277


thrown.) There is also an undoubted Queen residing among us; but from what court, and whence abdicated, the book is strangely silent. And unless the volume tells a great story,  Dan  Cupid  himself—in  other  words,  Love—may  be  found  either  on  the Brooklyn docks, or in a blacksmith shop in Prospect street—which act—viz. selecting Brooklyn for his terrestrial tarrying place—shows a degree of judgment of which so	5 proverbially flighty a gentleman might not be supposed capable. We always knew there was a wondrous many Venuses in our town—and, after all, then, it is not so strange that the child should come to look after his maternal parent. But what can so many Princes be wanting here? Have they come to set our republic by the ears, and cut
it up into a quantity of kingdoms for their special behalf? It is our duty as a good  10 democrat to warn folks against such machinations. We understand, moreover, that some of these Princes go openly to work, getting the good will of people in their avocations—and succeed, too.

15



June 14, 1847



An Afternoon with the Orphans—

Ride to Greenwood, in the Omnibus ‘Excelsior’—	20
Garden Festival at Mr. Husted’s

    On  Saturday  afternoon  last,  Messrs.  Husted  &  Kendall,  with  a  kind  hearted liberality which we should be glad to see imitated, not only placed their large new omnibus ‘Excelsior ’ with six horses, and another with four horses, at the service of the  25 orphan asylum, to take the children on a ride to Greenwood cemetery—but them- selves accompanied the party, to see that every care and attention were taken. At about
2 o’clock (for we went along with the rest,) we all started from Fulton ferry—seventy blessed souls, most of them of a juvenile description, and not a few of the smallest sort
of ‘toddlers.’ The big stage, and especially the six white horses attached to it, created  30 what the writers call an ‘immense sensation,’ all along the road. Col. Spooner, gracious and talkative, was inside, at times completely hidden by a clustering mass of feminine juvenility. Going up Henry street, we stopped at that august edifice, corner of Cran- berry, where the unbounded extravagance and architectural taste of the city fathers have hitherto housed their officials, to take up Judge Copeland.—Then wended we  35 onward, the ‘party’ complete—and not a little enlivened by some of the most brilliant puns and humour ever uttered by mouth of man! a sort indeed, so really astonishing, that the necessity for ‘spirit’ of any other kind was altogether superseded. . . . . . Arrived at the cemetery, the children wandered over the beautiful grounds there to their hearts’ content. We listened to the songs of the birds—thought how atrocious was  40 that theft of the thrush eggs—paid our respects to the pollywogs in Sylvan water— learnt for the first time that De Witt Clinton’s remains were deposited in the cemetery, and that it was intended to put up an imposing monument for him before long— admired the tomb of the pilot Freeborn—rested awhile on the grass in the shade—and then prepared to return. Everybody knows that at this time a ride athwart country  45 roads is one of the most pleasant treats that can be had. And our ride of Saturday afternoon was among the pleasantest of all. . . . . . At Mr. Husted’s house, in Myrtle

278	  


avenue, the vehicles stopped; and there the gratified children were conducted to the ample garden, where in an arbor a large table was laid with lots of delicious strawberries, cakes, lemonade, and other refreshments. The ladies superintended the affair most gracefully and cheerfully; and each tiny mouth being made thoroughly
5    acquainted with the nature of the good things, the fatherless and motherless little ones, after a bit of music, &c., were despatched, under the charge of their excellent matron and teacher, to the asylum—happy with their afternoon’s enjoyments. . . . . . . This generosity on the part of Messrs. Husted & Kendall, (and the ladies, too, who arranged the  garden  fete,)  is  deserving  of  all  commendation.  For  seldom  have  those  little
10    people—without their natural protectors and the indulgences of a mother ’s love, as they are—seldom have they cause to know that the outer world yet remembers them so kindly! But we are not without hopes that Saturday’s doings may form a precedent for other folks, too.

15



June 14, 1847


Book World


20		‘A history of Rome, from the earliest times to the death of Commodus, A.D. 192; by Dr. Leonhard Schmitz, F. R. S. E., rector of the high school of Edinburgh,’ has been published in Edinburgh, and handsomely reprinted, in New York, by Harper & brothers. The plain fact which the author alludes to, that the early history of Rome has had much additional light thrown upon it of late years, through efforts made by many
25    eminent persons abroad to investigate farther the constitution, laws, religion, litera- ture, and social condition of that proud ruler of the world, is in itself a sufficient reason for Doctor Schmitz’s offering. And when it is remembered that even in schools of high pretensions, the old fashioned histories, written previously, are still in vogue, the necessity of some such preparation as the present one, is clear enough. . . . . . The
30    struggles between the plebeians and the patricians, during the early time of the trib- unes, are well set forth in the book under notice. And, indeed, we should suppose that the majority of its selections, (for in such a prolific field as the materials of Roman his- tory, one must select,) were well-judged, and its statements founded on the authority of the best historians. The style of the book is plain and easy. The print and paper are fine.
35		Among the most really entertaining biographies, we pronounce a ‘Memoir of the life of Henry Ware, jr., by his brother, John Ware,’ two vols., published by James Munroe
& company, 134 Washington street, Boston: [T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton st., Brooklyn.] Among the first things that will strike one, in these books, are the two portraits, one at the beginning of each volume; both are of the same man, and yet of how different men!
40    In the first, (1825,) we behold the calmed, serene, cheerful young man, with ample and healthy intellect: and in the second, (1843,) lives the thought-worn, no more blooming, but saddened creature, who has well drained the cup of life, and found it not over sweet! . . . . . . . . The biography is a various, rambling one. It sets out with the evident determination of telling the whole story; of following its subject through road, path,
45    and byway. Mr. Ware’s early life—his studies, thoughts, trains of feeling and belief, are all tolerably well painted. His actual life is most faithfully given. And there are some beautiful  descriptions  of  a  social  nature  interspersed  among  the  rest—such,  for

  	279


instance, as that beginning on page 161 of volume first. . . . . . As a poet, Mr. Ware’s effusions have long been welcome among the refined readers of the day. His prose writings  are  distinguished  most  for  the  terse  crispy  style—his  sentences  being generally short and emphatic; and for the high purity, and love of freedom and truth, which they exhibit.	5
    ‘Songs of the sea, and other poems, by Epes Sargent,’ is also from the press of Mr. Munroe. We extract the following—a piece, which, though it may be not unfamiliar to the eyes of our readers, will bear a double or treble reading:

WOODHULL

‘Twas when Long Island’s heights beheld	10
The  king’s invading horde,
That,  by outnumbering foes compelled,
Our  chief gave up his sword.

Then  spoke the victor: ‘‘Now from me
No  mercy shall you wring,	15
Unless,  base rebel, on your knee,
You cry, ‘God save the king!’ ’’

With reverent but undaunted  tone, Then Woodhull made  reply,—
‘‘No king I own, save one alone,	20
The  Lord of earth and sky!

‘‘But far from me the wish that ill
Your monarch should befall;
So,  freely, and with right good will,
I’ll say, God save us all!’’	25

Shouted  the foeman, ‘‘Paltering  slave! Repeat, without delay,
‘God save the king,’ nor longer brave
The  fury that can slay!’’

But  Woodhull said, ‘‘Unarmed, I hear;	30
Yet threats cannot appal;
Ne’er passed these lips the breath of fear,
And  so, God save us all!’’

‘‘Then, rebel, rue thy stubborn will,’’
The  ruffian victor cried;	35
‘‘This weapon shall my threat fulfill;
So  perish in thy pride!’’

Rapid  as thought, the murderous blow
Fell  on the prisoner ’s head;
With warrior rage he scanned his foe,	40
Then,  staggering, sank and bled.

But  anger vanished with his  fall; His heart the wrong  forgave;
Dying  he sighed, ‘‘God, save you all,
And  me, a sinner, save!’’	45

280	  


    All Mr. Munroe’s books are printed in a superior manner, and can be had at Smith’s book store, 202 Fulton street. The ‘American Almanac and repository of useful knowledge,’ for the current year, is among the valuable issues from the Boston house. It comprises an immense mass of commercial and tariff statistics.
5		‘A Method for Prayer with Scripture expressions, proper to be used under each head: by the late Rev. Matthew Henry,’ is the title of a religious work, from the press of Robert Carter, 58 Canal st., New York. Dry as the general reader might, from its title, think this book, its contents may be applied to with a zest that will hardly fail, when one thoroughly grasps its subject. That subject is surpassingly august and profound; and
10    though the author professes but to lend a helping hand at forming the body for the soul prayer, even that is a work of high and solemn import.
    Mr. Carter publishes, ‘the life of Col. James Gardiner, to which is added, the Christian warrior animated and crowned; by Philip Doddridge, D.D.’ Though not by any means of the most pretensive class of literature, we believe this work is one of the standards of
15    sober reading. It has had a great many editions—and doubtless will reach many more.
‘Puritanism not genuine Protestantism,’ is published by Stanford & Swords, 139
Broadway, New York. It is written by the Rev. A. B. Chapin, M.A.,  and purports to
review ‘‘the Puritans and their principles, by Edwin Hall.’’ It is a controversial work;
and we have not read it. The world, we think, would be far better bettered, if the strife
20    was to do best ‘‘the will of the Father,’’ rather than to dispute which was the most
authentic ‘religion.’
Harpers’ Pictorial England, No. 24, brings us to the stirring times of Charles First,
in whose reign the sod of custom first opened to the struggling buds of rational liberty.
This is, to us, the most interesting period of English history; and though some of its
25    finest  points  have  been  quelled  and  darkened  by  those  sycophantic  writers,  the
flatterers of royalty, and contemners of the great men of the commonwealth, we have
little fear but time and truth will yet give ‘honor to whom honor is due.’
‘Moses meeting his wife and sons,’ is the elegant and most artistical embellish-
ment of part 47 of Virtue’s Family Bible, now in course of publication in London—
30    New York agency at 26 John street.—This fine work is progressing rapidly toward
completion.
‘The Inheritance,’ a novel by Miss S. Ferrier, author of ‘Marriage,’ ‘Destiny,’ &c., is
published in cheap form, in two parts, at twenty-five cents each, by Harper and
brothers. A good deal of fashionable life, and plenty of ‘sentiment,’ (an article whereof
35    our opinion follows Sir Peter Teazle’s) make up much of the groundwork of this
dashily written book.




40    June 16, 1847
The Talons of New York Must Be Unloosed from Brooklyn!

By an examination of the proper maps and records, it will appear astonishing
45    what an immense ‘grip’ our shrewish sister on the other side of the stream, has not
only upon the wrist, but the neck and legs, of Brooklyn. There is, at the present time a
pretty wide disposition to see if this grip cannot be unloosed. It is doubtful, we are

  	281


informed, whether law will not be in our favor, as justice certainly is. The history of the claim through which New York holds these lands, and wharves, and water lots, is a long one, dating far back—as far back as the Dutch governorship, under the umbrage of Holland;—and we cannot go into it at present. We shall do so, however, at an early
day. In the mean time, we publish the memorial on the subject laid before the common	5 council last Monday evening, with the promise of soon recurring again to the subject and  in more detailed manner:

To the mayor, aldermen and commonalty of the city of Brooklyn:
Gentlemen: The undersigned takes this method of directing the attention of your hon. body
to the importance, necessity and justice, of claiming the indefeasible right of this city  to the  10
revenues, rents, profits, and issues from all such Brooklyn wharves, piers, slips and ferries as are
now received by the corporation of the city of New York to its sole use and benefit, to the very
great disadvantage of our city, its prospects, prosperity and  improvement.—[Remainder of
memorial  omitted—50 ll.]
15




June 16, 1847


[Book Notices]
20

From Munroe & company, Boston, we get a translation, by Charles T. Brooks, of
‘Schiller ’s Homage of the arts: with miscellaneous pieces from Ruckert, Frieligrath, and
other German poets.’ In its creamy tinted binding, and its richer than creamy contents,
this volume is indeed acceptable. Among a mass of blooming lines, we still think the
following, from Ruckert, chaste and beautiful:	25

ALEXANDER’S    POWER
When  Alexander died he gave  command, They from his coffin should let hang, his hand, That all men who had  seen him formerly
Exulting  in the pomp of royalty,	30
Might now see, that, with empty hands, alone,
He,  too, the universal road had gone,
And  that, of all his treasures, nothing  save
That empty hand went with him to the grave.

    Parts 4, 5, and 6, of the Eclectic commentary on the bible, are published by the Lon-  35 don religious tract society, (Shannon & co., 118 Nassau st., N. York.) Some of the most neatly executed wood engravings we ever saw, are in this serial. The one in No. 5, of
‘the river Nile under its usual appearance,’ and ‘Sidon’ in No. 4, are capital! . . . . . . This commentary is made up on the fair principle of letting various minds and mouths speak; and not confining any given view to one individual pair of eyes. Some forty or  40 fifty authorities are consulted; while the four or five whose lives have been spent in studying the scriptures and all that elucidates them—and who have, on those subjects,
a world wide fame—are followed, according as their claims to credence seem to best warrant.
Nevin, 158 Fulton street, Brooklyn, sends us the Kitchen and Fruit Gardener, pub-  45
lished by Lea & Blanchard, Philadelphia, price 25 cts. This useful little volume contains

282	  


hints on the culture of culinary vegetables, fruits and flowers; and a calendar of the work to be performed each month in the year.



5

June 17, 1847
Ireland and England—Eccentricity of English Charity

10		We find the following fact in the papers; (it does not get half currency enough, however):

The  English  government  in 1835,  to  liberate  780,793  negroes  in  the  West  Indies,  gave
$100,000,000. In 1847 it offers $40,000,000 to feed 5,000,000 of her starving Irish  citizens.  The
freedom of one negro is, therefore, worth more than the lives of five Irishmen.

15		This is a bitter, but deserved, reproof. English charity, in the comparison, is like what the Chinese call ‘‘a lantern on a high pole, which gives light afar off, while immediately under it is darkness.’’ There are as many noble-hearted people in England, doubtless, as in any other nation—more than in most nations, we think—but, there is no disguising the fact that they overlook claims upon their brotherhood and
20    sympathy nigh their own doors, in order to meddle with the cause of a race who, physically, are better off than an immense proportion of their own fellow citizens. There is a feeling of hatred, in various phases, between the great body of the English and Irish: on the part of the latter, from wrongs accumulated during long ages—and on the part of the former from wrongs done. This is what makes it every way desirable
25    to have the noble Irish repeal cause successful; for that offers the only radical remedy for the appaling evil. Two nations bound together, and yet hating each other!—why we can conceive nothing more abhorrent either to their mutual feelings, or mutual safety. It is but just to the weaker, though, to say that the active malevolence has been invariably on the part of England—or rather the past-time English government. When
30    has Ireland ever opressed the other? It is, of course, out of her power—except that oppression, which, in the nature of things, inures from the oppressed to those who wrong them. Likewise, it is but justice to an ample number of the English to add, that in that nation too, among a portion of the people, Ireland’s rights, (the rights of man,) are not only understood and acknowledged, but ardently espoused.
35




June 17, 1847

40


A Working Woman’s Savings

A correspondent of the Dedham Democrat, writes from Medway:

    ‘‘I am informed that a female operative in the cotton mill of hon. Luther Metcalf in this town, has been constantly employed therein for a period of about 40 years, and has accumulated some two or three thousand dollars.’’

45		But she has dearly earned this little sum, at that! Forty years! To be shut up in a cotton prison for forty years—only to support life during that time, and save a paltry

  	283


pittance at the end of it! Why the manufactory lords who own the blood and sinews there, often think it a poor week’s work, if they don’t in that time ‘make’ that sum. Forty years work in a cotton mill! in the close air, and deafened by the rumbling of machinery, and the freeness of the limbs all cramped by the restraint! Ah, are not the two  thousand dollars dearly earned indeed!	5





June 17, 1847


Rec’d with Thanks	10


A pretty boquet from Bob.



15

June 21, 1847
Lengths of Whig Partizanship—Infamous Charges!

The dirtiest and silliest imputations are found, now and then, in some of the whig  20
papers. What, for instance, may be fairly thought of the monstrous charge contained in
the  following  extract  from  the  New  York  Tribune,  of  this  morning?  That  print  is
speaking of the battle of Buena Vista, and says:

    ‘‘It was a part of the programme of the president and his cabinet, that gen. Taylor should suffer defeat in order to flatter the Mexican pride and induce the nation to  peace.’’	25

    Is it possible that such scoundrelly charges are made by an American? Why, they would disgrace even those English libellers, in the London prints, who have lately been inventing and arraying all sorts of falsehoods against us! . . . . . . But hear the (editorial  of  the)  Tribune  again—where  he  says  that,  in  the  matter  of  the  battles between Mexico and us	30

    ‘‘The  president  looked  on  the  contest  with  a  feeling  of  perfect  indifference  as  to  its termination.—Santa Anna, or Gen. Taylor—Tros Tyriusve—he did not care which was victorious.
‘The free and gentle passage at arms’ of Buena Vista, he had provided for the combatants: he was not responsible for, nor interested in, the result.’’

    The black mouthed libeller! He who could utter such an imputation against the  35 president of the U. States is unworthy the name of American! Just think of it a moment reader: whig reader, even, if you be so! It means that Mr. Polk, the man entrusted with
the rule and responsibility of these weighty movements, is not only heedless to his great duties, but that he wishes the Mexicans to defeat our armies and slaughter our fellow citizens, and, if possible cut down the high glory of our arms—for what? O, that a mean and  40 petty and most vile party object may be attained! Said we too hastily that the man who could utter such charges against the commander-in-chief, deserves not the name of American? What he does deserve, we will not put in our columns; for the words it would require could not fail to go as far beyond the limits of decorum, as the act which invites our remarks is beyond all patriotism, decency, and common truth!	45
We noticed, too, a day or two since, a deliberate transcript in the leading editorial

284	  


of the New York Gazette and Times—(a miserable abortion of whig-nativism—mongrel in every good thing and a specific only in its bigotry and meanness)—we noticed the taking bodily of nearly a chapter from the sacred scriptures, all charged and primed as against the president and democratic party! The connection of the thing was vague at
5    the best; but by the editorial comments, the reader was made to understand that those extracts from the Bible evinced how Mr. Polk wanted to kill off Gen. Taylor and his countrymen: pretty much, indeed, in the same spirit as the Tribune’s charges, before mentioned. This was blasphemous! But what do such creatures care about the means they use to make a little wretched capital? In this instance, however, they are reckoning
10    without their hosts; for the masses of the whig party have American hearts, and will hardly brook such foul and infamous insults to the nation, through its representatives.





15    June 21, 1847


Book World


    ‘The  Treasury  of  Knowledge,  and  library  of  reference;  containing  an  English grammar, dictionary, gazetteer, chronology and history, and classical and law dictio-
20    naries, history of the arts and of literature, philosophy, political economy, and of American literature,’ is issued, by James Conner & son, corner of Ann and Nassau street, N. Y. We particularly like in this work, the part which comprises the American biography; it is ample and well-written. Besides this, the facts of ‘universal utility’ cannot but be found serviceable to almost every one, in almost any department in
25    life. . . . . . . . . Facts, after all, are the great foundation on which to build books; and these volumes, of course, are ‘founded on facts,’ without a bit of fiction about them. The type is small, and an immense mass is therefore crowded into a small compass. The statistics of the U. S., its products, business and population, will always be neces- sary in the library of intelligent persons; and they are probably as cheap in this form as
30  any other. Indeed, it is evident that in separate volumes, the information here condensed would cost forty or fifty dollars. The edition now issued is the eighth, and is enlarged and corrected. We observe that a history of Mexico, brought down to a late period, has been added among other things.
‘Harper’s New York class book, comprising outlines of the geography and history of
35    New  York,  biographical  notices  of  eminent  individuals,  sketches  of  scenery  and
natural history, accounts of public institutions, etc.; arranged as a reading book for
schools: by William Russell, professor of elocution in Brooklyn female academy.’ The
design of this book—which is of remarkably neat and durable getting up, in its paper,
type, and binding—is, according to the compiler, to furnish the youth of New York
40    with  a  manual  of  reading  lessons  embodying  useful  and  interesting  information
regarding their native state. Exercises of this kind should combine, as these do, ‘‘a
sufficient portion of solid fact, for the exercise of the understanding, and for the appli-
cation of distinctive emphasis, pausing, and inflections, in the plain style of narrative
and remark—while they are not left deficient in topics addressed to feeling and imagina-
45    tion in forms of expression which call for the varying tones of sentiment and emotion.’’
Nos. 13, 14, 15, and 16 of ‘the complete history of Ireland, from the earliest times, being
compiled  from  a  connected  continuation  by  approved  standard  writers.  By  Mr.

  	285


O’Halloran, author of ‘‘the introduction to the history and antiquities of Ireland.’’ Embellished with magnificent steel engravings, from designs taken expressly by W. H. Bartlett, esq.,’ (R. Martin & co., 26 John st., New York—from the London house.) It is but fair to this work—an offset to many protestant versions of the troublous history of
an often distracted island—to say that it is written in an earnest and manly style, and	5
that it is, at least, not more likely to be biassed than the accounts on the other side. For
our own part, we are reading it with great satisfaction.
‘Shells  from  the  strand  of  the  sea  of  genius;  by  Harriet  Farley.’  (Boston,  James
Munroe & company—Brooklyn, T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton street.) This is a handsomely
printed collection of about forty stories, essays, and fancies, many of them originally  10
published in the Lowell Offering. Some of these pieces are fine—and quite all of them
evince a respectable degree of talent. We have selected two or three for our first page
reading.
‘The Boy’s Summer Book, descriptive of the season, scenery, rural life, and country
amusements; by Thomas Miller, author of ‘‘Beauties of the country,’’ ‘‘Rural sketches,’’  15
etc.’ With thirty-six illustrations, (Harpers, New York.) A charming little volume, the
style of it pure and hearty, and the good-humored descriptions interesting not only to
those for whom it is specially written, but to ‘children of a larger growth.’
Nos. 13 and 14 of the Pictorial World, (Payne’s Universum, London) have been
issued by Robert T. Shannon, 118 Nassau street, New York, the agent for this section of  20
the world. ‘Acropolis,’ ‘the Trumpeter,’ and ‘port of Ting-hae,’ in 13—and ‘prince
Stephen’ and ‘Greifenstein’ in the other—are remarkably fine steel plates. The system
of prizes to subscribers, has been adopted by the publishers of this work.
‘Consumption curable; a practical treatise on the lungs—to prove consumption a
manageable disease; containing the causes, cure, and prevention of consumption; by  25
J. S. Rose, M.D.,  graduate of the university of Pennsylvania in 1838’; (W. H. Graham,
Tribune buildings, New York.) It has almost passed into a proverb that consumption is
the disease of the United States. Any thing coming with good claims to be a fair treatise
on it and its cure, will therefore be welcome to thousands.
‘The Sketch-book of Fashion; by Mrs. C. F. Gore, author of ‘‘Mothers and Daughters,’’  30
‘‘Peers and Parvenus,’’ etc.,’ (Harpers, 82 Cliff street, New York.) A principal design
which the writer states to actuate the preparation of this novel—one of ‘‘a class created
by the peculiar spirit of the last reign’’—is, to expose certain follies and frivolities of
the world of fashion. There certainly could not be a better object in its way.
35




June 23, 1847


The Monthly Magazines
40

    We have received, from the publishers, the July numbers of several monthlies. Graham’s has a fine mezzotint likeness of Gen. Taylor—fine as a picture, and said to  be  a  good  presentment.  Our  favorite  ‘F.  E.  F.’  has  a  contribution—with  other writers. . . . . The Columbian, (Ormsby & Hackett, 116 Fulton st., N. York,) has an ample
variety, mostly by female writers.—We like the picture of ‘Navy island.’ A fair number,  45 take it altogether. . . . . The National, (ours comes from Graham’s periodical depot, Tribune buildings, N. Y.,) has a clear print of ‘Anne Boleyn with archbishop Cranmer

286	  


the night before her execution’; a good piece of work in design and execution. Mrs. Stephens, Mr. Herbert, &c. contribute.



5

June 25, 1847
Honor to the Chief Magistrate of the United States!

10		To day the president of the United States makes his appearance in New York; and we are glad to notice that this fact is spoken of, and the remarks which it calls forth are written, not in a prejudiced or party vein anywhere. One of the embodiments of our system, and of the popular power, arrives in person among us. There is no selfish object to be gained. There is none even suggested by political opponents. It has been
15    usual for all the chief magistrates, at some time during their official career, to visit the Atlantic cities—a journey of mutual pleasure to themselves and their fellow citizens. And the hand or voice that would throw the least marring feature athwart the path of the great visitor, must be wanting in the first principles of decent manners—to say the least.
20		Of Mr. Polk much has been said by enemies—and, hitherto, but little by friends, probably because they are willing to let facts speak in his favor. We predict, however, an exalted station to be assigned to him by the future, among the distinguished democratic worthies. In every one of his movements, (with, perhaps, the exception of the Mexican war, in which there is some diversity of judgment) he is unanimously
25    acknowledged among those of our creed, to have shown himself the worthy successor of such beacon-lights of democratic truth as Jefferson and Jackson! A right hearty welcome then! thrice welcome! to the honored chief magistrate of the republic!




30
June 25, 1847



[Annual Salary]


Not far from $5,000,000 are yearly earned in Massachusetts, by females employed
35    in the various factories and manufactories of straw hats, stocks, &c. About 40,000
females are thus annually employed.
This gives each an annual $125—out of which they have to pay for board, clothing
&c. Ah! the munificence of the cotton lords, with their princely gifts to benevolent
institutions!
40




June 26, 1847

45


The President in Brooklyn

Brooklyn has been all alive this morning, preparing to receive the president of the
United States, who diverges from his arranged route so far as to visit our city. The day

  	287


has remained pleasant enough, with the exception of a dry and somewhat oppressive heat. And it was generally remarked that the streets were in a much better condition than the New York streets yesterday. We noticed not a few demonstrations of patriotic feeling, and enthusiasm; flags were on the various staffs over the city, and from several private buildings—and were stretched across Fulton street, just above the ferry.	5
    Before 9 o’clock a.m. and notwithstanding the few hours’ notice given, (so few that it is even yet not known in the outskirts of the city.) a very large mass of citizens had collected along Fulton street, in waiting for the arrival of the chief magistrate.— The City Guard, the Light Guard, spirited little companies of firemen in uniform, with
a corps of mounted dragoons, all with bands of music, drew up in the wide area of the  10 street. A long line of carriages also formed, containing the various judicial, municipal, and other public persons and corps of Brooklyn. The windows and balconies in every direction were filled with people, most of them ladies. Indeed, the turn-out was very handsome and general. The company kept accumulating, and patiently waiting till about 10 o’clock, when word arrived that the President had been taken to the New  15
York city hall! and would not visit Brooklyn till noon.—Of course, however, Mr. Polk is not responsible for the disappointment: he was in the hands of the New York committees.
    At the hour when we write this, (half past 11 a.m.) the public interest seems to have been put down by the doubt which is thrown around the presidential visit—the  20 true hour of it, and so on. The President, however, will arrive about noon, so he told
one of the committee, from whom we have it directly.
One o’clock—Arrival of the President at Brooklyn.
The president has arrived at the Fulton ferry.—His passage over the river was
announced by the thunder of cannon; and his appearance on shore, after landing from  25
the boat, was hailed by the most vociferous cheers from the assembled multitude.—
The president’s passage through the dense mass of persons was impeded by the great
concourse—hundreds of the citizens crowding to the carriage where he was, to grasp
his hand, or speak to him. He stood erect, and bowed to the people as he passed. The
story in some of the whig prints that he looks jaded and bowed down with care, is all  30
bosh: he evidently has years of good democratic work in him yet. His eye, particularly,
is full of fire and vigor—and we liked well his massive intellectual-looking face. It is
traced with his high responsibility, of course—but, to our mind, has every evidence of
both bodily and mental health. To the ladies—who were in every window—he bowed
with marked courtesy.	35
The President’s speech.
When opposite Front street, the carriage in which the president sat, stopped off
against another containing the mayor of Brooklyn, who made a short address to the
illustrious visitor. We were unable to hear it, partly from the low voice in which the
mayor spoke. The president made a reply of considerable length. He said that he had  40
particularly wished to visit Brooklyn, and regretted very much not being able to stay
longer. He very happily brought in an allusion to Washington, whose first battle—that
of Long Island—was fought within our limits—and reverently acknowledged (appar-
ently in response to something in the mayor ’s address,) the presence of the same
divine  control  over  the  destinies  of  our  republic  now,  and  over  its  officers.  The  45
president alluded to Brooklyn, and its reminiscences in the past, with a familiarity
which one could hardly expect from a man whose own locality was so far distant.—He

288	  


concluded by apologizing for the disappointment of the earlier part of the morning, and for the fact also, that his stay would be but half an hour in this city, in consequence of engagements over the river demanding his presence there.
The elocution of Mr. Polk is hearty and clear.—His manner is earnest, and bears
5    every mark of sincerity. His personal appearance convinced many that the stereotyped
jocose remark not favorable to his look, was really—like a good many other stories of
distinguished democrats—any thing but the truth.
We presume that, in consequence of his limited stay, the whole route advertised
will not be gone over by our honored visitor. A portion of our citizens will thus be
10    subjected to the disappointment of not seeing him.
Two o’clock.
The president, with his suite, the procession and escort, have just returned to the
ferry—and the president returns to New York. Our Brooklyn military, and the firemen,
looked fine, and marched superbly.
15




June 28, 1847

20


Books

    The second volume of Mr. Headley’s ‘WASHINGTON and his generals,’ (published by Baker  &  Scribner, 135  Nassau  street,  New  York,)  is,  to  our  mind,  somewhat  an improvement on the first volume. A better sustained vein, equal floridness,  more substance, a nicer laying on of the colors, mark this, over the first part. . . . . . It is the
25    fashion in certain quarters to speak of Mr. Headley as a mere book-writer. This, it appears plain, is used in a sneering sense; though what it exactly means is not so plain. It was ironically said of Macready, by some, that he was a mere artist. Prithee, what is a mere artist? For our part we should think it no small matter—but one requiring the greatest developement of many of the most precious faculties. The book-writer and the
30    artist, merely such, are quite high enough to form fit subjects for intelligent admiration, if they are such indeed.
    Liebig’s ‘Chemistry in its application to agriculture and physiology: by Justus Liebig,’ has been published, a handsome new edition, by Wiley & Putnam, New York, for seventy-five cents. Chemistry! the elevating, beautiful study! which only the vulgar
35    think technical, because they have not delved into its capacious recesses. Chemistry— that involves the essences of creation, and the changes, and the growths, and forma- tions and decays, of so large a constituent part of the earth, and the things thereof! We can well imagine how a man whose judgment leaps over the mere artificial, can be an enthusiastic, life-devoted, student in this noble science. Liebig is such a student. His
40    fame is as wide as the civilized world—a fame nobler than that of generals, or of many bright geniuses, who, like the one in Bulwer ’s play, ‘‘never could do anything useful.’’ The important discoveries of Liebig, and the new light he has cast over many other branches of science which are elucidated the more chemistry is elucidated, are well known to the learned world.
45	‘Goethe’s autobiography—parts third and fourth; edited by Parke Goodwin’: Wiley
& Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York. Last winter, on the appearance of the first and
second parts of this work, we spoke our mind of it, most fully and freely. The truthful

  	289


truthfulness which characterises its revelations is especially refreshing, for in these days there is an immense contagion of affected truthfulness, beyond all bearing, and nauseous to an extreme, general as it is! We like Goethe’s autobiography because it throws off quite all of this affectation, and writes as an intelligent man would write to a refined and sincere friend. There are some perfect specimens of description, in the	5 pages under notice—little pictures, in their own right. We have selected one or two for
our miscellaneous reading, and shall shortly give them.
‘Lectures to young men on their moral dangers and duties; by Abiel Abbott Livermore’:
Boston, James Munroe & co.; Brooklyn, for sale at T. D. Smith’s bookstore, 202 Fulton
st. These lectures were delivered at Keene, New Hampshire, on Sabbaths, to the young  10
men. They have much sound merit, with a little unnecessary stiffness. Good, however,
cannot but follow in proportion to the wideness with which they are read.
‘Self-culture;  by  William  Ellery  Channing’:  Munroe,  Boston,  and  T.  D.  Smith,
Brooklyn. No terms are too high for speaking in favor of this little work—little in its
volume but vaster than many great libraries in the objects which it involves, and the  15
large purpose it so clearly elucidates, and the serene and charming beauty of its style!
We have always considered it an unsurpassed piece, either as to its matter or manner.
‘The courtier of the days of Charles II; with other tales: by Mrs. Gore,’ have been
issued in two twenty-five cent volumes by the Harpers. Mrs. Gore is by no means an
unpleasing writer, and her stories are sprightly and moral. She does not possess talent  20
either of the first or second class—but is sensible enough to attempt no higher flight
than she can well support.
Prescott’s  ‘Conquest  of  Peru’:  Harpers.  By  the  politeness  of  the  publishers we
received, a few days since, a copy of this truly magnificent work. We shall notice it to-
morrow or next day.	25
‘The unfortunate maid; embracing the life and adventures of Bob Norberry; by
captain P. O’Shaughnessy’; W. H. Graham, New York. A well-written, dashy, warm-
hearted book, with not a good title—which will bar the perusal of it from many
readers, who would surely be pleased with the interest of its pages, the patriotism and
truth running through it, and the correctness to nature of its portraitures.	30
‘Relics from the wreck of a former world; or, splinters gathered on the shores of a
turbulent planet:’ Graham, Tribune buildings, New York. This work is intended to
furnish ‘‘a general view of the leading appearances of physical nature.’’

35



June 30, 1847


The ‘Law of Blood’


[Letter to editor and two instances of hanging of boys omitted—40 ll.]	40
There are certain people who scout at every thing that appeals to the feelings, as
‘‘sentimentality’’—a foolish weakness, only fit for women and children. So appears to
think our ‘‘full grown man.’’ But truly, nearly all that is good and pure in the world—in
law, government, human action, and other departments of life—proceeds from the
impulses of this ‘‘sentimentality.’’ The opposite of it—the coarse vulgar shallowness  45
which cannot appreciate it—that is ridiculous. But as long as the divine emanation of
CHRIST’s  purity and gentleness lives—as long as His example and law live—so long

290	  


has such ‘‘sentimentality’’ the most illustrious precedent possible for human thoughts and deeds!
    It has been said to us by worldly prudent men that the side against capital punishment is not the popular side. Doubtless it was not the popular side once; but of
5    late years the glaring truth is nigh every man’s knowledge that frequently in the empanelling of juries in murder cases, four-fifths of the jurors called have sworn in solemn  asseverations,  that  they  had  conscientious  scruples  against  hanging!  We should like to know what this proves.

10



June 30, 1847


New Magazine


15		We recommend to those of our readers who intend subscribing for one of the fashionable monthlies, to take the ‘Union magazine,’ the new periodical just started under the literary management of Mrs. C. M. Kirkland, and the publishing manage- ment of Israel Post, 140 Nassau st., New York. The first number, (for July,) contains a better than usual budget of stories and didactic articles. We would have wished that
20    the editress had given us some new names, too, among the contributors; but yet, if made the best of, the list furnished will afford, doubtless, a pleasing and instructive variety. At all events we could wish nothing better than the writings of Mrs. Kirkland herself, and Mrs. Child—writing to our mind among the best, freshest, and most charming specimens of American literature. May we have plenty of them in the ‘Union’! and
25    may the ‘Union’ be ‘preserved’ for many a year to come!





July 3, 1847
30


Independence Day


    To-morrow, then, is the fourth of July—our American independence day! Hail to its ennobling associations! for they of course, comprise all that makes the anniversary such a glorious one! Hail to the ever-fresh memory of the worthies who made that day
35    so holy! Is it not well to keep alive, in any and every way we can, thoughts and remembrances of that age, and the patriot statesmen and warriors? The bright example, planted in the firm foundation of the nation’s love, will do more good than essays from a thousand theorists. Let the sages and the soldiers die—for the great and immutable law of decay, in which is the mystery of new life, must ever hold its course.
40    But the spirits of those sturdy heroes will live—and at times and anon, when the wild whirlwind of faction rises, and demagogues would strike the dagger in the dark, their phantom forms shall stalk into the council-hall, or hover before the eyes of the mad- dened people, or lay the icy grasp upon the traitor ’s lifted arm, or whisper a timely caution in the senator ’s ear—to save or serve the land they loved so well when living.
45		Nor can many seasons elapse, ere all living links between us and that time of glory, will be destroyed. One by one, the men of those days have passed away to the grave, and now some trifling score only are left as visible and speaking memoirs of

  	291


their brethren. In the course of nature, but a few revolvings of the earth, and all will be taken from us. The measured charity of the state, scant as it has been and is, will soon be released from the calls of these whitehaired veterans for their little quarterly allowances. Thousands of the generation now living must, ere they die, hear of the
earth filling, and the sod closing, over the last of that sacred army.	5





July 6, 1847


More of the ‘‘Advertiser’s’’ Logic	10


    Our whig contemporary, on Saturday last, comes down in the following withering manner again:
‘‘It is well known that the editor of the Eagle is an Indian.’’
This is quite unapproachable and unanswerable. As to the long farrago about our  15
part in the relief movement, we will attend to it to-morrow.





July 7, 1847

20
Corporal Punishment in Schools


    By reference to the proceedings of the board of education it will be perceived that a  work entitled ‘‘the evil tendencies of corporal punishment,’’ was referred to the special committee who have said matter in charge. By our files we find that this  25 committee was appointed about four months since (Mr. Dillingham, chairman): it is to
be hoped that the committee will however report at the next meeting, more especially as the board by reference of ‘‘the evil tendencies of corporal punishment’’ has thus politely intimated that a report is expected.
30




July 9, 1847



Brooklyn Schools—The Lash as Used in Them	35


    We yet continue to hear of cases of severe flogging in some of our Brooklyn schools. Of the Middagh street public school, under the charge of Mr. Reeve, we have had several occasions to mention the practices—the infamous treatment of some of the children by the principal male teacher. Whether it be discontinued now or not, we are  40 unable to say, but don’t hesitate to advise all parents or guardians who have children there, of the fact that if it be not discontinued, they had far better take them away, than
to have them taught the brutal lesson of anger, spite, and blows. . . . . . We hear of another very severe case of lashing in the school in Washington avenue, kept by a Mr. Kellogg. The same rule will apply here as in the rest: a man who cannot govern youth  45 by  any  means  but  the  whip,  is  unfit to  govern  them  at  all—and  no  one  should countenance him. There is altogether too much of this lashing business in our Brooklyn

292	  


schools. The teachers have not a sufficient guard kept over them—for really most teachers need as great a supervision as the pupils. If the board of education were to pursue a rigid plan of employing only such teachers as (with the other requisites, of course,) invariably abstain on principle from the use of the lash, they would be borne
5    out by all enlightened judgment.
—Since writing the above, we have been furnished with the particulars of the case
in which Mr. Kellogg, of the Washington avenue school, played that gentlemanly,
dignified, and graceful part, so becoming to a man whose position, more than any other,
requires a perpetually even temper, and makes him indeed the observed of all his
10    young observers. From what we learn, two young lads, some ten and twelve years of
age respectively, the sons of a gentleman residing in Clinton avenue, in company with
another boy somewhat older, happening to be late at school one morning, found the
door locked, and presuming there would be no lessons that day, went strolling around
the schoolhouse. Presently they returned to the door, and to their surprise found it
15    open, and went in to their places. The master angrily demanded where they had been.
They replied that they could not get in before as the door was locked. He told them the
door was locked as soon as school was in, and as they had broken the rule without
excuse, he should punish them. Whereupon he seized the youngest and belaboured
him with his rod, in spite of the little fellow’s protestations of innocence and cries for
20    mercy,  until  his  strength  was  exhausted,  when  he  let  him  go.  After  breathing  a
moment, he collared the elder brother, and practiced upon him in the same brutal
manner. The other boy being rather large for safe handling, escaped scot-free. School
being dismissed, the little fellows went home and complained to their mother of their
hard usage and excessive pain. She hastened to strip their backs, and found them
25    literally flayed. With indignation at him who had abused her children, and a bleeding
heart for their suffering, she sought the schoolmaster, and as an injured mother alone
can do, made her complaint. But it was all in vain. The inexorable master plead that
‘‘his rules had been broken,’’ and the good order of his school required the example.
This was all the apology or extenuation she could get, and she left the place. In the
30    evening the father of the boys, returning home from business in New York, learned the
story, and set out for the schoolmaster ’s. His success was equal to the mother ’s, and he
left him to lay his case before the trustees. Even here he could accomplish nothing. The
teacher had exceeded his powers, but had committed no crime in their view of the
case, and consequently nothing could be done by them. So the matter stands.
35	Now allowing all that may be reasonable, for the sense of injury under which this
narrative is given to us, the fact appears to be undisputed that a savage castigation,
done in the heat of sudden anger, was administered upon two young boys by the
principal of the Washington avenue school. Were the trustees right in overlooking such
a deed? We think not. And with every willingness to allow that their wishes are honest
40    and sincere, we certainly cannot think they do justice either to themselves, the teacher
implicated, or the school whose interests are committed to their charge, by not sternly
and most emphatically rebuking such conduct. For our own part, (and we are sure we
should  do  so  on  the  highest  and  clearest  ground  of  principle,)  we  should  have
advocated the dismissal of the teacher, unless he were willing to promise a better and
45    more humane code as his rule of action.
—‘‘The evil tendencies of corporal punishment as a means of moral discipline in
schools and families, by Lyman Cobb,’’ is a duodecimo volume published by Mark H.
Newman & Co. It is divided into two parts—objections to the use of, and substitutes

  	293


for and preventives of, corporal punishment. We cannot speak too highly of this book. It is calculated to do a world of good. Such a work was much wanted to do away with the  yet  lingering  barbarism  of  the  old  method  of  instruction.  Self-degradation,  the author  clearly  shows,  is  the  necessary  consequence  of  flogging or  other  corporal
punishment, and this begets a recklessness of conduct most sure to lead to sad results.	5
And flogging reproduces itself. The boy who has been subjected to corporal punish-
ment becomes hardened thereby, and inflicts it without mercy when he arrives at
manhood. Mr. Cobb enumerates forty substitutes, or preventives for corporal punish-
ment, all of them plausible and many conclusive. We have not space to transfer them,
but we commend them most heartily to the consideration of instructors of youth—and  10
who is there among us in some way not an instructor of youth? ‘‘The boy,’’ says
Coleridge, ‘‘is father to the man.’’ The moral worth and usefulness of the latter depend
upon the education of the former; and Mr. Cobb shows himself a true philanthropist in
providing for the happiness of mankind by removing incentives to evil conduct. We
shall make extracts from this work shortly.	15





July 12, 1847


[The Brooklyn Daily ‘‘Advertiser’’]	20


    To hear such a print as the Brooklyn Advertiser say, ‘‘we have none to call us to account for what we advance, and are responsible only to the public,’’ is one of the best jokes of the age. In all the annals of nonsense and impudence, (the only annals wherein
our neighbor will be entitled to hold a prominent place,) never was newspaper wax so  25 completely between the thumbs of other people, as is this same Advertiser. Its body belongs to the most selfish and reckless of cliques; soul it has none to belong any where. The gutter-dirt that is washed into the dock by a shower, might as reasonably talk  of its independence. A paint brush has more control over its movements than
our contemporary—as the latter itself very well knows. And though it may be a very  30
benevolent thing for the nest of English cockneys, who, as they boast so perpetually,
‘‘own the paper ’’ they ‘‘edit,’’ to come over here and enlighten the free people of
Brooklyn with their effusions; we must say we can’t realize that alleged fact. Quite on
the contrary—for while always glad to receive the many good specimens from old
England, such samples as the Advertiser are alike unfair to their native country, and  35
degrading to this. What vile elements these meaner sort of Englishmen, over the land,
have introduced into our American press! Nearly all that is low and morbid, that
corrupts and violates the rules of taste, as far as newspapers are concerned, has been
infused among us by these migrating gentry from the stews of the English cities. And
the worst of it is, that, in reality, they have little but hatred toward the country that  40
affords them a living. They have been so long inured to a contempt for ‘‘the Yankee
doodles’’ at home, that it can hardly be got out by a few seasons’ residence.
We have proved the Advertiser effectually and undeniably an inventor of false-
hoods, on many occasions; and the chastisement it has had to take at our hands has at
one or two periods appeared to do it good. But the wisest of men has said of the class  45
to which our neighbor belongs, that though one should pound them ‘‘in a mortar,
among wheat, with a pestle,’’ yet will not their nature be rubbed out from them; (in
other words, they will continue to be the self-same ancient coin, of a value equal to

294	  


twenty-five cents plus six and a quarter; which is certes a very favorable allowance of the value of the Advertiser.) . . . . . With respect to the matters lately at issue between us, the whig print has not condescended at all to answer the facts, dates, and cases we have given—except by an ungrammatical and silly string of lines that about as
5    thoroughly shows up our contemporary as its worst enemy could wish. It consists of such like arguments as ‘‘the editor of the Eagle being a descendant of the flathead Indians.’’ In reply to that, we are utterly dumb.



10

July 13, 1847
Pleasant Two Hours’ Jaunt—East Brooklyn Stages

15		Many persons overlook some of the pleasantest and wholesomest enjoyments merely because the said enjoyments are near at hand, or because they are cheap. In reality, however, some of the truest pleasures are those that are most easily attainable. We have in Brooklyn a line of vehicles, wherein the poorest man, (or the poor woman either) can enjoy a three mile ride, for sixpence, equal to the nabob in his carriage. For
20    the vehicles we mention—which are none else than Husted & Kendall’s East Brooklyn omnibi—are furnished with thick soft velvet cushions, and the springs are both limber and stout; and as to having sundry fellow passengers, why it adds to the fun, for who wants to jog either through the world or on an excursion alone? . . . . . . Of an after- noon, (say 4 o’clock) when your business will allow you—and you’d better make it
25    allow you, now and then—get into one of these stages, and let yourself be taken east as far as it goes. There walk about the pleasant, wide, tree-lined avenues; stretch your jaunt even a mile or two farther to the east, into the country, and saunter through the woods, and athwart the fields. Expand your chests and let your lungs take in the fullest possible supply of air that is air. Returning refreshed between 7 and 8 o’clock, you can,
30    for another sixpence, be brought back to your domicile, almost renewed, even though tired. An occasional indulgence in this cheap but most rational pleasure, will be more profitable to you than a jaunt to the springs or a feverish trip to some fashionable country  place. . . . . . .  Nor  must  we  wind  up  our  paragraph  without  adding  a deserved word of praise for the drivers of these East Brooklyn stages. They are without
35    exception, men of the utmost civility and kindness in a professional way, that we ever saw. In New York one has frequent occasion to notice the sauciness, impudence, or want of civility, of the omnibus drivers. Not so on Husted and Kendall’s line; in very many passages over the route, we have never noticed a sin on their part either of omission or commission.
40




July 13, 1847

45


[Weeping Willow Sticks]

‘‘Bill,’’ said Bob, ‘‘why is that tree called a weeping willow?’’
‘‘Cause  one  of  the  sneaking  dratted  things  grew  near  our  school  house  and
supplied the master with the sticks that did all the boys licking—darn its ugly pictur.’’

  	295




July 15, 1847



Ride to Coney Island, and Clam-Bake There


    Never was there a time better fitted than yesterday, for an excursion from city to	5 country, or from pavement to the sea-shore! The rain of the previous evening had cooled the air, and moistened the earth; there was no dust, and no unpleasant heat. It may well be imagined, then, that a jolly party of about sixty people, who, at 1 o’clock, p.m., met at the house of Mr. King, on the corner of Fulton and Orange streets, (where they laid a good foundation for after pleasures,) had every reason to bless their stars at  10 the treat surely before them. Yes: there was to be a clam-bake—and, of all places in the world, a clam-bake at Coney-Island! Could mortal ambition go higher, or mortal wishes delve deeper? . . . . . . At a little before 2, the most superb stages, four of them, from Husted & Kendall’s establishment, were just nicely filled, (no crowding, and no vacant places, either,) and the teams of four and six horses dashed off with us all at a  15 merry rate.—The ride was a most inspiriting one. After crossing the railroad track, the signs of country life, the green fields, the thrifty corn, the orchards, the wheat lying in swathes, and the hay-cocks here and there, with the farming-men at work all along, made such a spectacle as we dearly like to look upon. And then the clatter of human tongues, inside the carriages—the peals upon peals of laughter! the jovial witticisms,  20 the  anecdotes,  stories,  and  so  forth!—Why  there  were  enough  to  fill  ten  octavo volumes! The members of the party were numerous and various—embracing all the professions, and nearly all the trades, besides sundry aldermen, and other officials.
    Arrived at Coney Island, the first thing was to ‘‘take a dance,’’ at which sundry distinguished personages shook care out of their heads and dust from their heels, at a  25 great rate. Then a bathe in the salt water; ah, that was good indeed! Divers marvellous feats were performed in the water, in the way of splashing, ducking and sousing, and
one gentleman had serious thoughts of a sortie out upon some porpoises who were lazily rolling a short distance off. The beautiful, pure, sparkling, sea-water! one yearns
to you (at least we do,) with an affection as grasping as your own waves!	30
Half-past  five o’clock  had  now  arrived,  and  the  booming  of  the  dinner  bell
produced a sensible effect upon ‘the party,’ who ranged themselves at table without
the necessity of a second invitation. As the expectation had been only for a ‘clam-bake’
there was some surprise evinced at seeing regularly laid dinner, in handsome style,
too, with all the et-ceteras. But as an adjunct—by some, made the principal thing—in  35
due time, on came the roasted clams, well-roasted indeed! in the old Indian style, in
beds, covered with brush and chips, and thus cooked in their own broth. When hunger
was appeased with these savory and wholesome viands, the champaigne, (good stuff
it was!) began to circulate—and divers gentlemen made speeches, introductory to, and
responsive at, toasts. A great many happy hits were made, and, in especial, one of the  40
aldermen, at the head of one of the tables, conceived a remarkable toast, at which the
people seemed tickled hugely. The healths of Messrs. Masterton, Smith, and King, of
Mr. Murphy, and of the corporation of Brooklyn, etc., were drank. Nor were the
artisans and workingmen forgotten; nor were the ladies, nor the Brooklyn press, which
the member of congress from this district spoke in the most handsome manner of, and  45
turned off a very neat toast upon.
The return to Brooklyn, in the evening, was a fit conclusion to a day of enjoyment.
The cool air, the smell of the new mown hay, the general quiet around, (there was any

296	  


thing but quiet, however, inside our vehicles,) made it pleasant indeed. We ascended to the tower-like seat, by Mr. Camfield, the driver of the six-horse stage, and had one of the pleasantest sort of eight-mile rides back to Brooklyn, at which place our party arrived a little after 9 o’clock. All thanks, and long and happy lives, to the contractors
5    on the new city hall! to whose generous spirit we were indebted for yesterday’s pleasure.





July 16, 1847
10


[An Incongruity]


Brooklyn contains fifty churches, and not one theatre.




15
July 16, 1847



Editors


An editor ’s duties, even in a case comparatively unimportant, are enormous and
20    unthankful; those he praises ‘‘love him less than their dinner;’’ and those he finds fault
with, ‘‘hate him worse than the devil.’’ If he steps out manfully, he can hardly avoid
treading now and then on somebody’s toes, who will make a point of never forgetting
it; while those on whom he may bestow commendation, (even if nothing more substan-
tial,) during his journeyings, will quietly place it all to the account of their own merits.
25




July 20, 1847

30


Paper Money

    Certain of our western brethren are much agitated on the subject of paper money. We should think they might be. Of all places where enterprise and natural advantages have been annoyed by a miserable circulating medium, the west goes ahead. We don’t see how a single one of the farmers or workingmen of that region can connive at the
35    existence of banks, or the circulation, any more, of ‘red back’ and ‘wild cat,’ with their long train of similar trash. In the Illinois convention assembled to amend the constitu- tion of the state, the committee on banks and incorporations have presented two reports. One comes from the majority of the committee and the other from the minority. The report of the majority under the title of ‘‘corporations’’ declares that no state bank shall
40    hereafter be created, nor shall the state own, or be liable for, any stock in any corpora- tion or joint stock association for banking purposes; nor shall banking powers or privileges be granted either by general or special acts of incorporation, unless directed by the people of the state. To determine the will of the people upon the subject, the legislature may as often as once in four years direct a vote to be taken on the day of the
45    general election; in case the people decide at such an election against the prohibition, the legislature may proceed to pass general acts of incorporation for banking purposes. But no law shall ever be passed, sanctioning directly or indirectly a suspension of specie payments. Ample security shall be required for the redemption of all notes and

  	297


bills in specie; the stock holders shall be liable to the amount of their stock &c. . . . . . The report of the minority provides that no corporate body shall be created, renewed or extended, within the state with banking or discounting privileges. Nor shall any person, corporation, or association of persons, be allowed to make, issue, or put in
circulation, within the state, any bill, check, ticket, certificate or other paper of any	5 bank, or branches or any evidence of debt, intended to circulate as money.—Neither shall any branch, or agency of any bank or banking institution in the United States, or
any state or territory, within or without the United States, be established or maintained within the state.
    The former is a complicated mongrel policy. The latter is by all means the proper  10 policy for the west. It will ensure to the masses of working people their equilibrium in wealth, with the rest—prevent great revulsions in prices—and preclude the partialism
to a few, in which banks delight.

15



July 20, 1847


[Fineness in Speaking]


    Don’t attempt to be too fine in speaking. Use good honest English, and common  20 words for common things. If you speak breeches, shirt, or petticoats, call them by their right names. The vulgarity is in avoiding them.





July 20, 1847

25

[Be Very Careful]


Be very careful in speaking of subjects upon which you are not acquainted. Much
is  to  be  learned  by  confessing  your  ignorance;  nothing  can  be  by  pretending  to  30
knowledge which you do not possess.





July 20, 1847

35
Dombey and Son


    The only real characters in Dombey & Son, are little Paul and Edith. The rest are all imitations,—second-hand affairs.
40




July 22, 1847


Books Lately Issued
45

    ‘Modern Painters; by a graduate of Oxford: first American, from the third London edition; revised by the author ’; Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York. The first dip one takes in this book, will, in all probability, make him pleased with the dashy,
    
298	  


manly, clear-hearted style of its author. He tells us in the preface that he began his writing from a feeling of indignation at the shallow and false criticism of the periodicals of the day, on the works of a certain artist. That his writing is entirely devoid of selfish or partial motives we feel confident; no other than a sincere man
5    could make such eloquence as fills these pages. The widest expanse of the ideal, and the most rigid application of mechanical rules, in art, appear to have been mastered by the author of ‘Modern Painters.’ As for artists, we should suppose such a work would be invaluable; and to the general reader it will present many fresh ideas, and afford a fund of intellectual pleasure. Indeed it is worthy of the reading of every lover of what
10    we must call intellectual chivalry, enthusiasm, and a high-toned sincerity, disdainful of the flippant tricks and petty arts of small writers.
    ‘Seventeen hundred and seventy-six, or the war of independence, a history of the Anglo- Americans, from the period of the union of the colonies against the French, to the inauguration of Washington; illustrated by numerous engravings’: by Benson J. Lossing; published by
15    Edward Walker, 114 Fulton street, New York. This elegantly printed volume, among other merits, is the most appropriate gift of which we know, for presentation to an American youth. And it is one which should be studied well and often by every American youth. It contains the story of the earlier adventures on the territory now forming the United States; and a clearly told account, well prepared, of the revolution-
20    ary war. It also has transcripts of all the important documents connected with the great events of that time, such as the celebrated stamp act, Washington’s circulars, and so on. . . . . . Although it is a common complaint that the spirit of patriotism is far more sluggish now than in the iron times of ’76, we think the reason for the difference will be found  in  the  different  circumstances  of  the  two  periods.  Such  provocatives  of
25    patriotism as then existed cannot now come in play again. But if others should arise, calling as loudly on the better feelings of the citizens of the United States, we do not doubt but that the call would be responded to, and nobly! And the greatest reliance, then, would be the example of ’76! for what nation on earth—with such a story engrafted on its very birth as the book we are reviewing shows our national story to
30    be—what nation on earth could ever turn recreant to the call of patriotism?
‘Life  of  Madame  de  la  Mothe  Guyon:  with  some  account  of  Fenelon,  archbishop  of
Cambray; by Thomas C. Upham, of Bowdoin college.’ Two handsome volumes these,
from the Harpers, giving the life and religious experience of a female well known in
the devotional world. Interesting as they are, and full of appropriate incidents, we
35    must confess that we have little sympathy with the life of a devotee, or pleasure in
reading such a life. The world, in its busy and troublous scenes, in domestic affairs and
in the thousand calls it makes, and avenues it opens, for human duty, affords a far
better mode of the useful developement of the religious principle, than any other
mode.
40	‘Shakspeare and his friends, part 2’: Burgess, Stringer, & co., 222 Broadway, N. Y. We
expressed our favorable opinion of this work, on the appearance of the first part. The
second part but clenches our good will. Even the style alone is refreshing, apart from
the interest attaching to every adventure or thought of the world-famed characters
who form its subjects. The style is rich, somewhat quaint, of the fashion of old court-
45    times—and puts one in mind of the high-bred manners of the day of the later Tudors.
Our American reprint is brought out in good style. We shall welcome the concluding
part, and endeavor, then, to give the whole work a more elaborate attention.
‘Memoirs  of  Madame  de  Stael,  and  of  Madame  Roland;  by  Lydia  Maria  Child’:

  	299


published by C. S. Francis & co., 252 Broadway, New York. Somebody, in noticing this work, has observed that, of all persons, Mrs. Child is the most fitting one to write the biography of the two celebrated Frenchwomen here treated of. The remark is no more than just. The authoress gives us a clear history, and a most graceful story withal.
    ‘The Arabian nights, illustrated by twenty large engravings and numerous wood	5 cuts’: C. S. Francis & co., 252 Broadway. This edition, (in parts at 37 1⁄2   cents each,) of a work which seems destined to hold a long time yet upon the popular taste, is one of
the prettiest and best printed—if not the best—that has yet been issued. We must confess to a fondness for such reading as the ‘Nights;’ and we recommend every parent or guardian with a dull or matter of fact child, to get a copy of these Oriental  10 legends, and put in the said child’s hands. They will have a good effect.
    ‘The Alphabetical drawing book, and pictorial natural history of quadrupeds’: Wiley & Putnam, N. York, is a little work having the object of affording lessons in drawing, and teaching youth the natural history of many animals. It seems calculated to interest the young.	15
    ‘Summer tours, by Theodore Dwight’; Harpers. The reputation of this author is better established, (like others of his well known family and name,) in a different style of writing. But even in this, and a pleasing style it is, he proves attractive.
    ‘Wood Leighton, or a year in the country, by Mary Howitt’; Burgess, Stringer & co. Whoever once gets a taste of the charming quality of this authoress, will need no  20 inducement to continue reading her books.
    Littell’s Living Age continues to be issued from the establishment of Berferd & co., at the Astor house, its New York agency. This periodical is one of the choicest, and affords the noblest reading, of any of its class in our language.
The monthlies for August—some of them—have been sent us by their respective  25
publishers. Godey’s contains a couple of neat pictures, one ‘the day’s work ended,’ and
one ‘death of the red deer.’ The Columbian has an indifferent picture on a scripture
subject, and a capital contribution from F. E. F.—The Ladies’s National furnishes its
usual quota.
30




July 23, 1847


A Nest of Cockney Blackguards
35

    The most honored, upright, and favorite citizens of our county—connected, on the democratic side, with the late judiciary election—have been abused without limit, and in the most low and infamous terms by a nest of fifth rate English scribblers, in the Brooklyn Advertiser. That concern is owned, edited, and altogether managed by these John Bull ruffians, who, in the publication of their sheet, descend to all the low arts and  40 shifts which blacken the gutter-journalism of their native country, and which had been unknown  here, until introduced by others of a like kidney.—They attack without provocation private character with the most dastardly hints; and the one whose low- bred vulgarity sticks his own name as ‘‘editor ’’ all over his paper, thrusts himself into every byway, and worms out all the little gossip, and retails it in his columns. Vulgar  45 and uneducated in the deepest sense of those words, he gads to and fro, spying and fishing in places where a gentleman would scorn to place himself, and regaling the morbid appetite of the lowest class of scandal-lovers, with his pretended discoveries
    
300	  


there. We know this ‘customer ’ well, much more of him than he thinks for, and tell him plumply that we shall put the mark upon him, if he take not better heed of himself. It is only forbearance on our part that prevents our doing so now.

5



July 24, 1847


South Brooklyn


10		The way in which certain portions of South Brooklyn, including the Atlantic dock, and certain demesnes which there adjacent lie, have sprung into existence within the last three or four years, is certainly a matter of astonishment. Though the changes effected there have not been quite so rapid, they certainly are not in extent a whit behind those recorded in the veracious history of Aladdin and his wonderful lamp. In
15    the period above mentioned a quagmire has risen up and become substantial sites for dwellings; and though but a few, comparatively, have been erected, a hundred or two respectable brick houses now occupy the places where the waters of the east river flowed up not long ago. In a short time very many more will be commenced and in the course of five years further on we are warranted in the belief that the whole of the
20    ‘‘made land,’’ one hundred acres in extent, together with the approaches thereto, will be densely built up. The Atlantic dock and Basin, that great monument of the forecast of  the  mind  who  conceived  it  begins  to  assume  a  definite shape,  and  afford  an adequate idea of what they are destined to be and to accomplish. The pier forming the outer barrier of the basin is being built up rapidly with large and substantial stone ware-
25    houses or contracts for their erection along the whole river front. Those which have been completed are surfeited with business and already yield a profitable per centage on the money invested in them. Several of these stores are fitted up with some of the most admirable contrivances for unloading and storing various articles of merchan- dise. Steam engines, railroads, etc., facilitate the removal of bulky goods, and appa-
30    ratus called elevators, are now constructing in several of the stores by means of which three thousand bushels of grain can be taken from the hold of a canal boat, or other vessel, raised to the top of the building, accurately measured, conducted through the roof, and deposited in a bin situated in any part of the store to which the machine is attached, or any other on the pier—all in the brief space of one hour and a half. With
35    these and other facilities what is to hinder the Atlantic dock from erecting an immense business for Brooklyn? The U. States government already disburses $40,000 per annum for mere rentage upon the dock, besides giving rise to an immensity of manual labor to conduct its operations. The expenditure of moneys which must in a few years accrue to Brooklyn will exceed all present computation.
40




July 26, 1847

45


New Light and Old

    There are many people among us—and generally intelligent ones, too—who are in the habit of talking, writing, and reasoning on the principle that government is the
    
  	301


power whose influence, properly wielded, ought to make men virtuous, happy, and possessed of a competence. We find the following extract in the last number of that valuable weekly, the American Statesman:
WHICH  IS  THE   MOST PERFECT POPULAR GOVERNMENT?—‘‘That,’’ said Bias, ‘‘where
the laws have no superior.’’	5
‘‘That,’’ said Thales, ‘‘where the inhabitants are neither too rich nor too poor.’’
‘‘That,’’  said  Anacharsis,  the  Scythian,  ‘‘where  virtue  is  honored  and  vice
detested.’’
‘‘That,’’ said Pattacus, ‘‘whose dignities are always conferred upon the virtuous,
and never upon the base.’’	10
‘‘That,’’ said Cleopolus, ‘‘where the citizens fear blame more than punishment.’’
‘‘That,’’ said Chilo, ‘‘where the laws are regarded more than the orators.’’
‘‘That,’’ said Solon, ‘‘where any injury done to the meanest subject, is an insult to
the whole community.’’
‘‘But,’’ said the wisest of them all, ‘‘That is the most perfect government, where the  15
earth is not monopolized by the few to the injury of the many, and where labor,
receiving a just remuneration for its toil, is guarantied to all. In that government you
will find neither misery, nor crime, nor poverty.’’
It may seem a tall piece of coolness and presumption, for an humble personage
like ourself to put his opinions of government on the same page with those of the wise  20
men of the ancient days; but, as a common engineer, now, could tell Archimedes things
to make the latter stare, so the march of improvement has brought to light truths in
politics which the wisest sages of Greece and Rome never discovered. And it is, at the
same time, painful to yet see the servile regard paid by the more enlightened present to
the darker past. The recognized doctrine that the people are to be governed by some  25
abstract power, apart from themselves, has not, even at this day and in this country,
lost its hold—nor that to any thing more than the government must the said people
look for their well-doing and the prosperity of the state. In such a form of rule as ours
this dogma is particularly inconvenient; because it makes a perpetual and fierce strife
between those of opposing views, to get their notions and doctrines realized in the  30
laws.
In plain truth, ‘‘the people expect too much of the government.’’ Under a proper
organization, (and even to a great extent as things are,) the wealth and happiness of the
citizens could be hardly touched by the government—could neither be retarded nor
advanced. Men must be ‘‘masters unto themselves,’’ and not look to presidents and  35
legislative bodies for aid. In this wide and naturally rich country, the best government
indeed is ‘‘that which governs least.’’
One point, however, must not be forgotten—ought to be put before the eyes of the
people every day; and that is, that although government can do little positive good to
the people, it may do an immense deal of harm. And here is where the beauty of the  40
democratic principle comes in. Democracy would prevent all this harm. It would have
no man’s benefit achieved at the expense of his neighbors. It would have no one’s
rights infringed upon and that, after all, is pretty much the sum and substance of the
prerogatives of government. How beautiful and harmonious a system! How it tran-
scends all other codes, as the golden rule, in its brevity, transcends the ponderous tones  45
of philosophic lore! While mere politicians, in their narrow minds, are sweating and
fuming with their complicated statutes, this one single rule, rationally construed and

302	  


applied, is enough to form the starting point of all that is necessary in government: to make no more laws than those useful for preventing a man or body of men from infringing on the rights of other men.
We conclude our article by the following extract from a discourse by the great
5    Channing, which we mean more particularly for those who think that poor citizens are
the great difficulty in the way of national happiness:

    ‘‘Mere wealth adds nothing to a people’s glory. It is the nation’s soul, which constitutes its greatness. Nor is it enough for a country to possess a select class of educated, cultivated men; for the nation consists of the many not the few; and  where masses are sunk in ignorance and
10    sensuality, there you see a degraded community, even though an aristocracy of science be lodged in its bosom. It is the moral and intellectual progress of the people to which the patriot should devote himself as the only dignity and safeguard of the  state.’’



15
July 29, 1847



[England in India and China]


Divers English gentry who favor the public hereabout with their perpetrations,
20    through  the  Brooklyn  Advertiser,  are  very  indignant  because  an  American  print
suggests that if China were to employ a Yankee force, and Yankee artillery, to man her
forts and beat back her gain-worshipping invaders, the result would not be so safe to
the said invaders. Now don’t get excited, Messrs. Englishmen! You have been abusing
the people of this country, and our government, a long time, for the Mexican war; but
25    you never say a word about your country’s doings in India and China. And though you
think it ‘‘supremely ridiculous,’’ and an ‘‘evidence of verdancy and folly,’’ to suppose
that Yankees can hold their own against your countrymen in fight, yet Saratoga and
Yorktown did tell something of a story in our favor. It is rather strange, though, that a
budget of Englishmen should be put in control of an American press, and be allowed
30    to amuse themselves by sneers and insults not only toward upright individual citizens,
but against the country, and the national name.
Let us not be misunderstood, however, in one thing. England, with all her failings,
is a grand and stout-hearted nation—the race, of all others, which has done best for
civilization and humanity—even though, as in all unrepublican governments, wicked
35    men and wicked counsels now and then prevail. Yes; England has a towering greatness
and glory—has in her borders thousands of lovers of right and freedom; but she too
has many sneaking unprincipled offspring, worthy of her vileness, but unworthy of
her greatness. The worst of it is, that some of these personages, strange as it may seem,
get control of American newspapers!
40




July 29, 1847

45


Late Books

    The Harpers have published, in two handsome volumes, Leigh Hunt’s ‘Men, Women, and Books.’ Contemporary literature possesses few better, more appreciating,
    
  	303


more discriminating critics than Mr. Leigh Hunt. The essays in the volumes under notice are thirty-one in number, and as various in their subjects and styles as the moods of mind that produced them. They consist of ‘‘Fiction and matter of fact, the inside of an omnibus, the day of the disasters of Cartington Blundell, esq., a visit to the Zoological gardens, a man introduced to his ancestors, a novel party, bed and bed	5 rooms, the world of books, Jack Abbott’s breakfast, on seeing a pigeon make love, the month of May, the Giuli tree, a few remarks on the rare vice called lying, criticism on female  beauty  in  three  essays,  on  statesmen  who  have  written  verses,  female sovereigns of England, social morality, Pope in some lights in which he is not usually regarded, Garth, physicians and love letters, Cowley and Thompson, bookstalls and  10
‘Galateo,’ bookbinding and ‘Heliodorus,’ ver-vert or the parrot of the nuns, specimens of British poetesses, Duchess of St. Albans and marriage from the stage, Lady Mary Wortley Montague, life and African visit of Pepys, and life and letters of Madame De Sevigne.’’ The work is published by the Harpers in their usual style of excellence.
We  are  in  receipt  of  sundry  works  from  Fowlers  &  Wells,  the  phrenological  15
publishers, which we shall take an early occasion to notice.
Russell, a novel, by G. P. R. James.—Harper & brothers publish, price 25 cts., the new
historical romance of this prolific writer of fiction. The tale is dated in the reign of
Charles II.
Miss Pardoe’s Louis XIV, and the court of France.—Part 2 of this very charming book  20
has  just  reached  us  from  the  publishers,  Harper  &  brothers.  The  engravings  are
exceedingly well executed, and the work itself is, as we have already intimated, of
remarkable interest and attraction.
Virtue’s devotional family Bible continues to be issued with rapidity, and with
marked beauty too. The plates are superb, and the letter press of the first quality.  25
Of the Pictorial England which the Harpers are now publishing in numbers, a
contemporary says that it is

    ‘‘projected on a scale recommended by Macauley and Carlyle as the only veritable thing to be dignified with the name of history, and we have read the first number with critical care, to see
if there could be a possible chance for a history of the kind. The writers of the subjects embraced  30 in this first number have concentrated a great deal of matter that is scattered in various learned tomes, and have presented it in a most attractive form. We advise those who love history, and particularly the young who are forming a taste for it, to supply themselves with these numbers; they are published at a price that will  scarcely be felt.’’
35




August 5, 1847


Mrs. Bishop’s Singing
40

    The appearance of Mrs. Bishop—which we strolled over to the Park theatre last evening to see, or rather hear—was greeted by one of the most inspiriting houses that ever assembled in those old walls! We found a seat, after considerable looking for it, in one of the tiers that was neither first, second, nor fourth; but as we had that sage grave
man Major Noah by our side, and divers other of the city editors, we thought it would  45
do. . . . . . . Mrs. Bishop, in look, is an Englishwoman, considerably Italianized; she is
of middling size, or a trifle more, has bright dark eyes, and superb figure and general

304	  


physical build. Her voice is the purest soprano—and of as silvery clearness as ever came from the human throat—rich, but not massive—and of such flexibility that one is almost appaled at the way the most difficult passages are not only gone over with ease, but actually dallied with, and their difficulty redoubled. They put one in mind of the
5    gyrations of a bird in the air. . . . . . . The heat and the crowd prevented our staying to see more than the first act. The piece was Linda of Chamounix, the English adaptation of course. Mrs. B. herself, however, sings with equal facility in French, Italian, or German. Probably her immense vocal fluency gives her an easy command of any language.
10		The new decorations at the Park give it a very cheerful aspect—though there is too much of the flame look about the box fronts, for the month of August. The orchestra behaved nobly, as they always do at this theatre; and the old favorites of the stock company, (ah! how poor Fisher must be missed!) were received with pleasure again.

15


August 5, 1847
‘The Good Genius That Turned Everything into Gold’
20
    Harper and brothers have just issued a very attractive and well written juvenile, entitled as above, and illustrated by Cruikshank. The work is the production of the brothers Mayhew, of the London Punch, and the English critics have been lavish in their praise of it. It is a fairy tale, inculcating an important moral lesson in a fascinating
25    mode; so that while it is sure of becoming a favorite in the family circle, it will do good as well as amuse. It forms part of the beautiful new series, entitled ‘‘Harper ’s fireside library.’’



30

August 7, 1847
What Makes a ‘‘Gentleman’’ in the English Court

35		When Prince Albert and Queen Victoria part, if there are no ‘‘gentlemen’’ in waiting, one of the maids of honor has to open the door for the prince! In this single little fact lies a quarto volume of comments on the difference between the old world and America. In that interminable and populous range of states in the valley of the Mississippi, comprising many millions of people, we don’t believe there is one single
40   American born, temperate, white citizen who would accept the English coveted position of ‘‘gentleman’’ in waiting.—Nor is there one ‘male creature,’ of American birth—or at least of true American education—in the United States, who would allow a lady to perform the menial service of ‘‘opening the door ’’ for him.
The refined Europeans find fault with the citizens of this republic, particularly its
45    western sections, for their primitiveness and want of polish.—Perhaps the complaint is
warranted. But the heart of the national politeness is fresh and sound, at any rate.

  	305




August 9, 1847


A Ridiculous Idea


    The annexation of Cuba to the United States, or the seizure of that island by our government. No man with brains in his head ought to talk of such a thing with	5 seriousness.





August 9, 1847

10
Late Issues in the Publishing World


    A right royal treat! ‘‘The Complete Angler; or the Contemplative man’s Recreation: by Isaac Walton,’’ (Wiley Putnam’s edition, 161 Broadway, New York.) Well might the gentle Elia say to one of the truest of modern poets, of this book, ‘‘it breathes the very  15 spirit of innocence, purity, and simplicity of heart; it would sweeten a man’s temper at any time to read it; it would Christianize every discordant passion.’’. . . . . . Doubtless every lover of fishing will appreciate—and other persons too—the following quaint taste of our author ’s quality:
    


[Poem omitted—48 ll.]

THE    ANGLER’S   SONG 	20


    These volumes, containing, besides the ‘‘treatise on fysshinge with an angle,’’ many  illustrative  ballads,  music,  papers  on  American  fishing,  and  a  complete catalogue of books on angling, are published uniform with W. & P.’s library of choice  25 reading.
    Harper & Brothers have issued a second edition of Sir George Head’s ‘‘Home tour through the Manufacturing Districts of England.’’ This is a very readable volume, giving narratives concerning the heart of England, and of English wealth and productions, the manufacturing districts. It is printed in cheap form, price 25 cents.	30
    ‘‘Fascination, or the power of charming, illustrating the principles of life in connection with spirit and matter,’’ is a work written by John B. Newman, M.D., and published by Fowler & Wells, 131 Nassau street, New York. It contains many singular disclosures.

35



August 10, 1847


The French Revolution


Lamartine’s History of the Girondists: Ryde’s translation—Harpers’ edition. In all the  40
long and varied annals of history, there is not one lesson to governors and government,
so vivid in all its bearings as the French revolution!—No man who more or less has the
‘destinies of the people’ in his hand, by reason of the station he holds, should fail to
acquaint himself with the events, from the long drawn out beginning to the august
ending, of that era. . . . . . Most people, when they hear of the French revolution,  45
involve in the idea thereof merely a fraction, the thousandth part of it;—and that is the

306	  


execution of the king and queen, and the prolific massacres by the guillotine. Bloody and terrible as that part of the play is, it is but one little scene of it. Indeed, when one takes in the whole scope of the French revolution, the work done by the axe will be quite lost sight of, in the expansion of far higher, wider, and deeper results.
5		The ‘History of the Girondists’, lately written by Alphonse de Lamartine, and forthwith translated and published in English, (Harpers’ beautiful edition) gives glimpses into some of the nooks of that revolution, which the more uniform, disciplined track of other works on the same subject, has precluded them from touch- ing upon. Indeed the ‘History of the Girondists,’ compared with other histories, is
10    much as a play compared with an ordinary prose volume: it is, we think we can say, the most dramatic work we ever read—too dramatic, perhaps, for the higher purposes of history—though its intensity of interest is increased by the same cause. [Quotation omitted—79 ll.]
In view of the fate that befel the unhappy couple one is willing that the foregoing
15    terms, favorable as they are, should be used toward them. But the great faults of Louis
and Marie Antoinette were, it must still be remembered, that they lifted themselves in
their blasphemous and insane pride, so high above humanity as to have no sympathy
for the horrors and sorrows that were spread over France, and which entered into the
every day life of so many millions of people whose flesh and blood were just as divine
20    as the king’s or queen’s. For ever perish! (say we) whether by force or opinion, such
outrages on the common fraternity of mankind! In the death of the husband and wife,
we see but the death of two persons, a man and a woman. In the overthrow of the
despotism of that period we hail a glorious work, for which whole hecatombs of royal
carcasses were a cheap price indeed! [Quotation omitted—50 ll.]
25




August 11, 1847

30


[Book Notices]

    ‘‘The power of the Soul over the Body, considered in relation to health and morals,’’ forms no. 25 of Harpers’ miscellany. Its author, George Moore, M.D., has already written some works on the same general topic. The motto of this is a remark of St. Bernard, ‘‘Thou hast a noble guest, O flesh!’’ . . . . We sincerely welcome such books as this; for, as
35    much as the present time is vaunted over the past, in no age of the world have so many influences been at work, averse to health and to a noble physical developement, as are working in this age! And in no country are they so active as in this country.
How many phases of the following case are there in real life!

We will confine our observation for a moment to the mere mechanical work of the engraver
40    as an example of simple attention. He sits with his eye and mind intent upon the fine lines of his copper or steel plate; and as he looks more earnestly he holds his breath; and as his attention
strengthens in its fixedness, his breathing becomes audible and irregular. Now and then he is forced to sigh to relieve his burthened and excited heart; for the blood is retarded in the lungs and brain, and if they be not soon relieved by some change of object or of action he turns faint
45    and dizzy. Being wrought up to the same intensity day after day, he comes at once upon the extreme verge of danger. The right ventrical of the heart becomes oppressed in consequence of imperfect action of the lungs, while the general circulation is quickened, and thus dilation of the

  	307


heart soon follows, with disordered liver and accumulation of black blood in the  abdomen, bringing on a long train of morbid sensations, with constant dread of coming death. Moderate but frequent exercise in the open air, with cheerful  society,  as it would have prevented this miserable  condition,  will  also  still  relieve  it,  but if  this duty  be  neglected  the  evil  rapidly
increases. The patient’s heart palpitates excessively when either the mind or body is hurried; he	5 is ‘‘tremblingly alive’’ in sense, and his nervous system completely fails him. Pallid, weak, timid, and tremulous, he is apt to be too sensitive to endure the anxieties of domestic duty; and, if not sustained by high religious or moral principles, he seeks a respite from his wretchedness in the soothing, yet aggravating narcotism of opium or tobacco, or in the insidious excitement of some fermented liquor; and thus gradually casts himself out from all happy and natural associations,  10 and  ends his days either as a  hypocondriac,  a madman, or a drunkard.

It is a pity that the incalculable talents and energies that go to make up this
‘glorious age of civilization’ do not turn themselves to discover some means for the
humble object of merely making people live tolerably!
‘‘Fresh  Gleanings,  or  a  new  sheaf  from  the  old  fields of  Continental  Europe:  by  Ik  15
Marvel.’’ (Harper & Brothers, N. York.) The print of these volumes is refreshingly clean
and open—such as is ‘good for sore eyes.’ (Quite glad it makes us to see so many
evidences of the passing away of the excessive demand for the worst and cheapest
forms of printing.). . . . . . . . . Lively, chatty, and sparkling, the ‘Gleanings’ sound no
call on one’s profounder thoughts—their office being more that of amusement.	20
[Quotation from book omitted—38 ll.]
‘‘The Germania and Agricola of Caius Cornelius Tacitus, with notes for colleges—by
W. S. Tayler,’’ (New York; Wiley & Putnam.) In his preface the compiler states that his
book is designed to meet the wants, 1st of a Latin text approved and established by the
concurrence of recent editors; 2d of a more copious illustration of the grammatical  25
constructions; and 3d of a comparison of the writer with his contemporaries. The book
is printed in fair style.



30

August 12, 1847
The ‘Death Punishment’ as in the French Revolution

We have had vividly brought before our thoughts, in Lamartine’s ‘‘History of the  35
Girondists,’’ the fact that but for the advocates of capital punishment of those days, all
the massacres and monstrous doings of the worst time of the French revolution would
have been prevented! It seems to us that this single fact alone is enough to outweigh all
the sophisms of Dr. Cheever and his co-workers in behalf of the gallows. And indeed,
the prodigious executions of that time may be considered as one of the legitimate fruits  40
of the spirit that metes out capital punishment to those convicted of crime. And the
same bloody influence that it spread through the empire, (a traveller there and then
relates that a common amusement of the country children was the guillotining of little
animals,) is spread, in the present time, by hanging spectacles, or even the fact of
hanging, without the spectacles! . . . . . . . . . The time will come, we hope—and before  45
long, too—when a better philosophy, and a more far-sighted judgment of right and
results, will establish a different state of criminal law, and look back on the barbarism

308	  


of the past as we look back on the dark cruelties of the penal laws two hundred years ago. Already we see the dawning of that clearer light! . . . . . . . . . While the National Assembly were discussing the constitution for France, and toward the close of that discussion, a section was proposed, and powerfully pressed, to preclude the punish-
5    ment of death, as a legal penalty in France, for ever afterward. We extract from page 48 of Harpers’ edition of Lamartine’s work:

    ‘‘The discussion on the abolition of the punishment of death presented to Adrien Duport an opportunity to pronounce in favor of the abolition one of those orations which survive time, and which protest, in the name of reason and philosophy,  against the blindness and atrocity of
10    criminal legislation. He demonstrated with the most profound logic that society, by reserving to itself the right of homicide, justifies it to a certain extent in the murderer; and that the means most efficacious for preventing murder and making it infamous was to evince its own horror of the  crime.  Robespierre,  it  was  subsequently  who  fated  to  allow  of  unlimited  immolation, demanded that society should be disarmed of the power of putting to death. If the prejudices of
15    jurists had not prevailed over the wholesome doctrines of moral philosophy, who can say how much blood might have been spared in France?’’





20    August 13, 1847


Philosophy of Ferries


    Our Brooklyn ferries teach some sage lessons in philosophy, gentle reader, (we like that time-honored phrase!) whether you ever knew it or not. There is the Fulton, now,
25    which takes precedence by age, and by a sort of aristocratic seniority of wealth and business, too. It moves on like iron-willed destiny. Passionless and fixed, at the six- stroke the boats come in; and at the three-stroke, succeeded by a singled tap, they depart again, with the steadiness of nature herself. Perhaps a man, prompted by the hell-like delirium tremens, has jumped over-board and been drowned: still the trips go
30    on as before. Perhaps some one has been crushed between the landing and the prow— (ah! that most horrible thing of all!) still, no matter, for the great business of the mass must be helped forward as before. A moment’s pause—the quick gathering of a curious crowd, (how strange that they can look so unshudderingly on the scene!)—the paleness of the more chicken hearted—and all subsides, and the current sweeps as it
35    did the moment previously. How it deadens one’s sympathies, this living in a city!
But the most ‘moral’ part of the ferry sights, is to see the conduct of the people, old
and young, fat and lean, gentle and simple, when the bell sounds three taps. Then
follows a spectacle, indeed—particularly on the Brooklyn side, at from seven o’clock to
nine in the morning. At the very first moment of the sound, perhaps some sixty or
40    eighty gentlemen are plodding along the side walks, adjacent to the ferry boat—
likewise some score or so of lads—with that brisk pace which bespeaks the ‘business
individual.’ Now see them as the said three-tap is heard! Apparently moved by an
electric impulse, two thirds of the whole number start off on the wings of the wind!
Coat tails fly high and wide! You get a swift view of the phantom-like semblance of
45    humanity, as it is sometimes seen in dreams—but nothing more—unless it may be you
are on the walk yourself, when the chances are in favor of a breath-destroying punch in

  	309


the stomach. In their insane fury, the rushing crowd spare neither age nor sex. Then the single stroke of the bell is heard; and straightway what was rage before comes to be a sort of extatic fury! Aware of his danger, the man that takes the toll has ensconced himself behind a stout oaken partition, which seems only to be entered through a little
window-looking place: but we think he must have more than ordinary courage, to	5
stand even there. We seriously recommend the ferry superintendent to have this place
as strong as iron bars can make it.
This rushing and raging is not inconsistent, however, with other items of the
American character. Perhaps it is a developement of the ‘indomitable energy’ and
‘chainless enterprise’ which we get so much praise for. But it is a very ludicrous thing,  10
nevertheless. If the trait is remembered down to posterity, and put in the annals, it
will be bad for us. Posterity surely cannot attach any thing of the dignified or august
to a people who run after steamboats, with hats flying off, and skirts streaming behind!
Think  of  any  of  the  Roman  senators,  or  the  worthies  of  Greece,  in  such  a
predicament.—(The esteem which we had for a certain acquaintance went up at least a  15
hundred per cent, one day, when we found that, though a daily passenger over the
ferry, he never accelerated his pace in the slightest manner, even when by so doing, he
could ‘save a boat.’)
A similar indecorum and folly are exhibited, when the boat approaches the wharf.
As if some avenging fate were behind them, and the devil indeed was going to ‘‘take  20
the hindermost,’’ the passengers crowd to the very verge of the forward parts, and
wait with frightful eagerness till they are brought within three or four yards of the
landing—when the front row prepare themselves for desperate springs. Among many
there is a rivalry as to who shall leap on shore over the widest stretch of water! The
boat gets some four or five feet from the wharf, and then the springing begins—hop!  25
hop! hop!—those who are in the greatest hurry generally stopping for several minutes
when they get on the dock to look at their companions behind on the boat, and how
they come ashore! Well: there is a great deal of inconsistency in this world.
The Catharine ferry at the foot of Main street has plenty of business, too, though
not near as much as the one whose peculiarities we have just been narrating. It has  30
lately had some new boats—or new fixings and paint, we don’t know which—and
presents, (we noticed the other day, in crossing,) quite a spruce appearance. The
Catharine ferry is used by many working people: in the morning they cross there in
prodigious numbers. Also, milk wagons, and country vehicles generally. During the
day a great many of the Brooklyn dames go over this ferry on shopping excursions to  35
the region of Grand street and Catharine street on the other side. The desperation to
get to the boat, which we have mentioned above, does not prevail so deeply here. Long
may the contagion ‘stay away’! for we must confess that we don’t like to see it. This
ferry, (like all the others,) is a very profitable investment; and from those profits we are
warranted in saying—as we have said once or twice before—that the price for foot  40
passengers should be put down to one cent, and horses and wagons in proportion.
The South ferry has a more dainty and ‘genteel’ character than either of the other
places. The broad avenue which leads to it, and the neighborhood of the aristocratic
heights, from whom it receives many of its passengers, keep it so. Business is not so
large there as at either of the other ferries we have mentioned; but the accommodations  45
are of the first quality. The boats are large and clean; and the more moderate bustle and

310	  


clatter make it preferable, during the summer afternoons, for ladies and children—the latter often taken by their nurses and remaining on board the boats for an hour, for the pleasant sail.
Besides these, we have the ferry from the foot of Jackson street on the Brooklyn
5    side, to Walnut st. New York side. This consists of only one boat, and a rather shabby
one at that. Many workmen at the navy yard use this means of conveyance; and it is
also of course patronized by citizens in that vicinity. We should think much better and
more rapid accommodations would be desirable there.—The boat is half the time
prevented by her own unwieldiness from getting into her slip under half an hour ’s
10    detention. She seems to be some old affair that has been cast off for years.
We have also two other ferries, in the limits of Brooklyn, which in time will be as
much avenues of business as either of the rest. One of these goes from Whitehall to the
foot of Hamilton avenue, and accommodates the region of the Atlantic dock, and of
farther South Brooklyn, which is daily assuming more and more importance. The other
15    goes also from Whitehall to the long wharf near Greenwood cemetery. This also is
necessary for the accommodation of a rapidly increasing mass of citizens who are
attracted by the salubrity of that section of Brooklyn joined with the cheapness of the
land, and the nearness of the beautiful grounds of the cemetery.
The ferry at the foot of Montagu street is in progress; and will probably be in
20    operation next spring. The Bridge street ferry is also determined upon, and may be
completed by the same time.





25    August 13, 1847


New Business for Governments


    One of our New York contemporaries thinks that governments are ‘‘above all, bound to protect the general health of the poor.’’ This is a very desirable result, but
30    governments have nothing more to do with it than they have to give ‘‘the poor ’’ new jackets every Christmas.




35    August 14, 1847
How We Went Down to Fort Hamilton—and Other Matters

Some  of  our  Brooklyn  friends  have  been  touched  with  the  war  fever,  like
40    thousands of young fellows about the land; and yesterday afternoon we went down to
Fort Hamilton, to see one of them who is going out in the detachment that sails next
week in the ship Isabella, for California. The fourth-rate steamboat American Eagle,
(we cannot conscientiously put her rank any higher,) was—on her 4 o’clock trip from
nigh the battery—thickly crowded with people, most of whom were on their way to
45    Coney Island. We must confess that we did notice a great many pretty girls, but then
there’s no harm in that; all the beautiful creations in nature were made to be looked at.
With  this  exception,  the  appearance  and  accommodations  of  the  ‘bird  of  liberty,’

  	311


(presumptuous name to give a dilapidated steamboat!) were not of the most inviting kind. On deck, forward, were stationed a young man with a violin, which he handled quite cleverly for a common player, and a boy who ‘did’ the vocal parts,—consisting of divers versions of ‘nigger ’ tunes, some of them with here and there a happy hit. Among the greatest favorites was one which solemnly enjoined upon all people little	5 and big, to

‘‘Clear the way for General  Taylor.’’

An unnecessary task it seems to us—as that worthy is in the habit of taking the job upon himself, and asking no favors of any one. The young gentleman also volunteered  10 the information that

‘‘To lick the Mexicans he’s a  whaler.’’

Meaning the General aforementioned.
The sail down was ‘truly delightful.’ A stiff cool breeze blew plump in our faces,  15
and the sky was as clear as glass; while a slight grey mist hung over the hills of Staten
Island, and on the sea-edge of the horizon, in the distance. Never did the shores on
each side of our lovely bay look more placid and more inviting! The green trees, the
cultivated fields, the houses so embowered in foliage, the white sails in the offing, the
slight ripple of the waves around, made up a scene such as it was good to be in the  20
midst of—good, and refreshing, and a better treat than books or banquets. No one can
tell,  except  a  citizen  tired  out  with  pavements  and  crowding  houses,  how  truly
glorious is the country, (God’s work, indeed!) in comparison with that Babel which
makes the eyes ache, and the soles so weary! For ourself, we sometimes feel a yearning
greediness for the wide sea-waters, and the open fields of the country, that ‘carries  25
every thing before it.’
At Fort Hamilton, we found the volunteers, some of them, sauntering about inside
the fort; while others were undergoing the drilling process. Little squads of the latter
class were in several parts of the fort. Not being the least bit military ourself—but on
the contrary, a man of peace—we don’t know whether they did very well or ill. But a  30
companion, whose sanguineous propensities are professionally ‘great,’ and who loves
the smell of gun-powder better than daily bread, appeared to be satisfied—which was
enough for us. . . . . . . We sauntered round the inside of the fort, and here and there
stepped in the men’s quarters. For sleeping, in the volunteer ’s apartments, there were
two tiers of deep shelving, partitioned off into bunks, where we should think a man  35
might repose comfortably enough, especially after going through the fatigue of drill
several hours. The rooms are ventilated by open-work overhead—and are filled, just
now, with the trunks, baggage, arms and uniforms of the volunteers. In some apart-
ments we saw members of the gentler sex—wives, we were told, of the men, and
accompanying them to the distant land of promise; likewise children of both sexes,  40
who appeared to be as happy as clams—although we doubt the moral influence of
developing the ‘young idea’ in a soldier ’s camp.—It struck us, in glancing around, that
we never saw so many good-looking fellows, as those young volunteers. Many of them
are Germans, and some Irish; we heard the deep voice of the former, in their native
songs—and caught the brogue of the latter in many a jolly retort. The moustache and  45
full beard are in vogue at Fort Hamilton—which saves a good deal of trouble in
shaving, and gives a more menacing and masculine appearance likewise. Upon the

312	  


whole, we think we like the ancient and manly beard—the concomitant of the apostles, of the men of Rome, of Petrarch and Tasso and Shakspeare.
    The evening parade was begun just before the arrival of the boat made it neces- sary for us to leave the scene of military display; but from the sample given, both in the
5    use of arms, and in marching, we were convinced that there was the right sort of material there. . . . . . . The first detachment, of about one hundred men, is expected to sail next Wednesday, in the ship Isabella. Her destination is California; and the volun- teers go in somewhat the same manner, and with similar intentions, as Col. Steven- son’s expedition. That they may have a safe passage, and the best of ‘luck’ in the
10    future, is our sincere wish and prayer—which we give as warmly as man’s heart can give!
    We were taken through the cook-houses and bakery, where we saw some of the means of feed necessary for so large a number of jaws and stomachs. The bread was fine and white; and the coffee, fish, and beef, looked as though a fellow might be glad
15    never to get anything worse. The utmost good nature prevailed throughout all that we saw  in  the  fort—which,  when  we  consider  the  heterogeneous  materials,  and  the license necessary under the present condition of things, is saying a good deal for the inmates there. From what we heard, and indeed observed, the young men have some of the pleasantest qualities which can be brought to the sort of life which they are to
20    lead—and those are generous open-handed dispositions, willingness to oblige, and mutual good will and forbearance.
    The return of the American Eagle, (we can’t exactly swallow that name, in the connection,) was signalized by a series of rockings which gave every passenger a tangible  idea  of  his  cradle-days.  There  were  far  too  many  people  on  board,  for
25    comfort.—Still, for our part, we had a pleasant evening sail; the clear sky overhead, and the salt odor of the waters around. The young minstrel who accompanied the boat down, was also with its return. He was a bright looking, rosy cheeked lad—and must have been tired enough with his day’s work. Poor child! we saw him fast asleep in the East Brooklyn omnibus, an hour afterwards! . . . . . . . . . These little trips do one good,
30    and we recommend our readers to take them as often as may be.





August 16, 1847
35


[Teaching]


    Pour water hastily into a vessel of a narrow neck, little enters; pour gradually, and by small quantities the vessel is filled. Such is the simile employed by Quintilian to show the folly of teaching children too much at a time.
40




August 16, 1847

45


Persian Poetry

    The July number of the Westminster Review contains an elaborate and interesting review of a new work, by Miss Costello, on Persian poetry. At the close of the article, the reviewer gives some translations of his own from the Persian poets. [Further introduction and translations omitted—75 ll.]
    
  	313




August 16, 1847


Advice for Summer


    ‘‘Don’t gormandise. It is monstrous to see men, when the mercury is up to 90 degrees, cram a pound of fat meat down their throats. Don’t you know that animal	5 food increases the bile? Eat sparingly and be sure you masticate well what you eat. Don’t bolt your food like an anaconda.—Take exercise early in the morning. Ah! what fools we are to sweat in bed, when the cool breeze of the morning invites us forth, and
the birds and the dew and the streams are murmuring in their own quiet way, pleasant music, which a kindred melody in the soul. . . . . Bathe often—three times a week—  10 every day. The expense is nothing to the benefit derived. If you would enjoy health, have a clear head, a sweet stomach, a cheerful disposition, put your carcasses under water every day, and when you emerge, use the brush vigorously for five minutes. There is nothing like the pure bracing water. We never dip beneath its surface without thanking God for placing such a health-promoting element within our reach.’’	15




August 17, 1847
20
Another Shocking Result from Druggist’s Carelessness

    Ever since we came very near being poisoned, and a family of seven or eight with us, by the carelessness of a druggist in Myrtle avenue, who sent us a prodigious dose
of oxalic acid instead of tartaric acid, (which was wanted to put in some batter cakes,)  25 we have known how to sympathise with those who are the victims of such inexcusable conduct. In no business should more care be taken to select the most trusty agents and clerks, than in the drug business. . . . . . . We find the following in the New York papers of this morning:

Death from laudanum.—The coroner held an inquest yesterday at 27 Lewis street, upon the   30
body of Clara Maria Smith, aged 3 months, who died from the effects of laudanum administered
for paragoric, through mistake or carelessness of the apothecary, from whom it was purchased.
The jury found a verdict that she came to her death from laudanum, administered for paragoric,
obtained  from some place to the jury unknown.
35



August 18, 1847


Late Publications
40

    Tales in prose for the young; by Mary Howitt; New York—Harper & Brothers. The writings for youth of both sexes, by this popular author, are too well known and appreciated to require commendation. The present little collection of tales will be found of the like moral tendency with the author ’s former volumes.
    The court of Louis XIV; by Miss Pardoe.—The fourth part of this popular work is  45 before us, commencing the second volume. The vignette engravings are very good. There is also a full length portrait of Madame de Maintenon.
    Dr. Trail’s new illustrated edition of Josephus; part 3. This is a beautiful serial issued by the Messrs. Harper, accompanied by engravings. The editor and translator has for
    
314	  


the first time rendered this classic historian into good English; the improvement in the style is more striking and important than any person would suppose, as may be seen by comparing this with the old translation by Whiston. Every family ought to sub- scribe for this valuable cheap work.
5		Goodwin’s lives of the Necromancers; An extraordinary collection of cases of magic, witchcraft and necromancy, prior and subsequent to the establishment of the christian religion; it makes an interesting volume, of which the Harpers have issued a new edition at 35 cents.
Nevin, 252 Fulton street, sends us a work published by Dunigan, (New York,)
10    entitled ‘Jessie Linden, or the seven corporal works of mercy.’—This is a very interesting
tale, mostly designed for the use of catholics and for the instruction of catholic youth. It
is well written, and neatly printed, and will probably have an extensive circulation.
It forms no. 8 of Dunigan’s home library, and is inscribed to the Rev. C. C. Pise, under
whose auspices the talented authoress was induced to write it.
15




August 19, 1847

20


Peaches and Courtesy

    We received a handsome lot of beautiful peaches from our contemporary of the Brooklyn Advertiser, this morning. The looks of the fruit were beautiful—and the taste is sublime; as we, and all our ‘boys’ can testify.

25



August 21, 1847


[Book Notices]


30		W. H. Graham, (Tribune buildings, New York) sends us No. 15 of Chambers’s Cyclopedia of English Literature. This No. has biographies and extracts from Sir Walter Scott, Washington Irving, Bulwer, Marryat, James, Jerrold, Lover, Cooper, Ainsworth, Dickens, Lingard, Fox, Roscoe, Horace Smith, Mrs. Trollope, Mrs. Hall, Miss Edge- worth, Misses Porter, Hannah More, Lady Morgan, &c., &c., comprising most of the
35    popular English prose writers of the present century. One more number completes the work, which should find a place in the library of every person who desires a knowl- edge of English authors and their works.
From the same publishing house, comes a pamphlet novel, price 25 cents, entitled
‘the crimes of the Borgias,’ and written by Dumas, author of Monte Christo, and other
40    popular works.





August 24, 1847
45



The Great Work at South Brooklyn


    We have of late years seen in the newspapers and magazines a great many poems on  ‘‘the  sublimity  of  labor,’’  and  such  like  topics;  but  the  most  potent  argument
    
  	315


possible  in  that  line  is  furnished  by  the  Atlantic  dock,  still  in  process  toward completion, at South Brooklyn. We spent some hours there yesterday afternoon—and under the polite guidance of Col. Richards, as well as by our own investigations, we saw  enough  to  make  us  wish  to  go  many  times  again—which,  indeed,  will  be necessary before a man can get the whole of one of the most stupendous and uniform	5 commercial conveniences of modern times, fairly in the scope of understanding,—and
to properly appreciate the numerous uses and contrivances (great in their simplicity, too!) which mark this admirable work.
The great article of storage now at the dock is grain. It is a wonderful thing to see
the immense quantities of this article which lie in heaps, in the capacious store rooms  10
of the warehouses there! It is taken directly from the vessels which bring it, (on the
eastern  side)  and  passed—by  means  of  an  incomprehensible  process,  the  motive
power of which is steam enginery—to any part of the stores; by similar process, it is,
when wanted, passed down again to any given place, to any vessel, and so on. Then
there is a steam contrivance for drying and making good the moist-heated grain which  15
is sometimes brought to market. . . . . . But we cannot begin to describe the great
things here, after only one visit; and shall defer doing so till we have seen more of the
dock and its demesnes.

20



August 25, 1847


Condition of the Stage


The last Yankee Doodle says:	25

    AH, HA!—A weekly paper pronounces Madame Bishop the ‘‘greatest artist in the country,’’ adding ‘‘even she may be ruined by an ill-judged effort to coerce the press or any portion of it.’’ What does all this mean? We are in America—we thought the press here was free—the press coerced by an English singer!
30
    If the writer in Yankee Doodle means to intimate that he doesn’t know the notorious fact that nearly all our theatres, as well as all actors of any note, have a general system of paid puffing and puffers—why that ignorance is more astonishing by far than the puffing itself! For our part, we admire Mrs. Bishop’s splendid singing: it is of the
highest order of art, of the florid kind. But there is very little doubt that her friends  35 have to bow to the paying for praise system, to some extent, at any rate. . . . . . All the New York theatres keep a ‘‘puffer ’’ who sends daily notices to the newspapers, which
are printed in a sort of semi-editorial way; and the verdant think the notices are the spontaneous effusions of editors! Pshaw! they are paid for like advertisements. The managers say they can’t get along without these puffers. Doubtless they say right.—As  40 at present constituted, the theatres in this country can never seize hold of the true public appetite, or keep it. They go on the fallacious idea that ‘‘it is necessary to please
the million.’’ Really, however, it is best to please the select few who guide, (and ought to guide,) public taste. At present, we get little but a hash of foreign pieces and foreign performers. This is not satisfactory; and, without analyzing their own feelings, people  45 are getting more and more dissatisfied with it. For the drama has been, and still must
be, a great element in the amusements and instructive agencies of civilized life. We think it is destined to take a new form, and triple vigor, in this republic. The time must come for that result. Managers, as they have been, and as they yet are, must give way

316	  


to an entirely new race of managers—men of tastes fitted to the age and to the people, and to the improvements which have been effected in every other branch except the drama. That this race will come, and that soon, we have every confidence.

5



August 25, 1847


Ballad of the Children’s Wish


10		Among the sweetest writers of plain English—and most to be credited as the translator of Miss Bremer ’s books—we consider Mary Howitt. The Harpers have lately published a little volume of ‘‘tales in verse,’’ by this sweet authoress, from which we make the following extract:
[Quotation omitted—86 ll.]
15



August 26, 1847
20	What the Defenders of the Gallows Say—
and an Answer Thereto

    The N. York Journal of Commerce of this morning commences an article embodying its argument why, even if the current story of ‘‘the wrong man hung,’’ (Boyington, at
25    Mobile,) be all true, it doesn’t prove enough against capital punishment to warrant the abolition of that penalty. But before it gets through, it receives information through a
‘gentleman from Mobile,’ which leads it to doubt the story of the Boyington mistake. Whether that be a mistake or not, however, we suppose the Journal will acknowledge that there have been, and must always continue to be, many a ‘‘wrong man,’’ and
30    woman too, hung for crimes they never committed. We have seen some estimate of the number somewhere, based on careful investigations, and mostly giving name, date, and place, of these horrible cases: we think, in the different parts of Europe and this republic, since the commencement of the present century, the number was near a hundred and fifty guiltless persons who have been victims to the scaffold, under the
35    present laws! This is most appaling!
In connection with this part of the argument, the advocates of imprisonment
demand instead of the old the other mode of penalty, not because it can be altogether
erased, when once inflicted by mistake and on innocent parties—but because, on the
discovery of such mistake, society can make some recompense. In case the innocent
40    party be hung, it cannot: the Journal’s logic, therefore, falls down. And there is no doubt
that when the ‘‘wrong man’’ is imprisoned, the right man will in most cases have such
continual prickings of the soul as may lead to the exposure of the crime; for great
crimes have a sort of cumulative remorse, that is ever goaded by itself when kept alive
through such a thing as the knowledge of another party still suffering for the deed.
45	But we do not ask for the abolition of the choking laws, simply because the
‘‘wrong man’’ is sometimes choked to death. That is but a little item in the great chain
of reasoning which makes up the whole sum. We ask it because an immense amount of

  	317


crime goes unpunished—an amount increasing from year to year—because juries under the present dread of the scaffold, will not agree to convict, with the blood of the criminal on their skirts. Thus we ask it in defence of society, and of the laws, and of common justice, and of our private safety. We ask that the monstrous influence of criminal executions be foregone, with all the poison that they diffuse through the	5 moral tone of communities where they happen—inviting bloodshed by the taste of blood. And this cannot be avoided by merely enacting executions to be private. They never can be private, as long as they exist at all. We ask it out of a decent respect to that potential public opinion, which we are all bound to obey; for the gallows is now in the minority. We ask it in the name of Christ. We ask it on the strength of the greatest  10 judges’, statesmen’s, and lawyers’ opinions in its favor. We ask it with the tongue of all philanthropy, which is the truest wisdom. . . . . . . . . On what foundation can the Journal of Commerce say nay to these?

15



August 27, 1847


[The ‘‘Union Magazine’’]


    The Union magazine, under the editorial charge of Mrs. Kirkland, has its September  20 issue now before the public, containing a variety of contributions, many of them excellent.  Miss  Gould’s  and  Miss  Sedgewick’s  articles  are  always  welcome.  Mrs. Kirkland’s writings, to us, are treasured things—always. . . . . . The poetical contribu- tions of the Union are much beyond the tame verses, usual in the monthly magazines. [Extract omitted—69 ll.]	25





August 28, 1847


To-Day’s Gloomy News	30


    Rarely has a sadder phrase fall’n on the ears of the people than that which met us so appallingly this morning—and which yet passes, with an almost incredulous wonder, from man to man: ‘‘Silas Wright is dead.’’ Ah, it has a crashing effect, still! and
we can hardly write the words. Our hopes, in common with those of nearly all the  35 members of the democratic party of this state, and indeed of the other states, were so identified with this man—relied so upon him in the future—were so accustomed to look upon him as our tower of strength, and as a shield for righteous principle—that
we indeed feel pressed to the very earth by such an unexpected blow! We confess that
we loved Silas Wright, as a true democratic friend of the people, with a love which was  40
not exceeded by our feeling toward any man who ever adorned our party—not even
by our love and respect for Jackson. The late governor was A MAN; Alas! we fear we
shall indeed never ‘‘look upon his like again.’’
Amid the degrading elements that now-a-days so mix up with politics, it is like a
beam of heavenly radiance—the character of Silas Wright. He was a perfectly upright,  45
honest politician. He never betrayed either his friends or his own conscience.—He
thought more of his honor than of his preferment; and of the latter, never except in

318	  


connection with the interests of the people and his sincerely felt political faith. He was always averse to taking office, and could have been president of the United States, since the last election, had he not disdained, with a lofty scorn, to take what fairly belonged to his friend. Far, far, far beyond the common herd of ‘great’ statesmen was
5    Silas Wright. In the mere strife for elective success, or the enjoyment of distinguished rank, he saw no pleasure. Like the massive heroes of antiquity—and equal to the noblest of them—he thought it best to serve his country as she needed him, and then retreat from the tinsel and the crowd, to the simplicity of his farm—to his fields, his plough—to nature and his books. An august character! O, may every democratic
10    young man, (as surely they will!) treasure his example and his precepts, in the same honor with Jefferson’s—than whom he we are now called upon to mourn was not a particle less worthy the love of all who love human liberty.
    Silas Wright had in himself all that goes to make up a truly great man, (that so often misused phrase.) He had Washington’s distinguishing characteristic; he loved
15    truth, right, and justice, in every thing—in politics, in debate, in laws, in his private and public action. No truckler was he to the modern doctrine among politicians, incorrectly termed expediency. His mental vision had a mightier, ampler reach: his flight, to that of the others, was as the flight of an eagle to the common fowls of the air. Like Jefferson he fully took in the theories of things—the ideal, without which the practical is but
20    systemless and cold. He had Jackson’s indomitable will, when convinced of his proper course. He had Van Buren’s blandness of tone. And all these were beautifully compounded—as the tints that make up a divine picture.
    And yet, amid our tears, we are fain to think that the better part of him—his example and his spotless fame—yet remain to the young men, and the future men, of
25    the republic! And that is truly glorious! Not a brighter or more precious heritage can be bestowed upon us; not even the glory of the revolutionary fathers, nor the memory of the brave who have fallen in battle. We can ill spare him, especially at this time, when great events, big with the fate of future empires and of teeming generations, are coming to be ushered on our national stage. But the God who rules all has allowed this
30    thing to be; and, in the ordinations of the world, it is doubtless susceptible of good, amid its manifold evil.
    —We proceed to copy from the sources which at once come to hand, a few of the testimonials which this dark news has called forth: [Remainder omitted—109 ll.]

35


September 1, 1847
American Workingmen, versus Slavery
40
    The question whether or no there shall be slavery in the new territories which it seems conceded on all hands we are largely to get through this Mexican war, is a question between the grand body of white workingmen, the millions of mechanics, farmers, and operatives of our country, with their interests, on the one side—and the interests of
45    the few thousand rich, ‘polished,’ and aristocratic owners of slaves at the south, on the other side. Experience has proved, (and the evidence is to be seen now by any one who will look at it) that a stalwart mass of respectable workingmen, cannot exist, much less flourish, in a thorough slave state. Let any one think for a moment what a different

  	319


appearance New York, Pennsylvania, or Ohio, would present—how much less sturdy independence and family happiness there would be—were slaves the workmen there, instead of each man as a general thing being his own workman. We wish not at all to sneer at the south; but leaving out of view the educated and refined gentry, and com-
ing  to  the  ‘common  people’  of  the  whites,  everybody  knows  what  a  miserable,	5 ignorant, and shiftless set of beings they are. Slavery is a good thing enough, (viewed partially,) to the rich—the one out of thousands; but it is destructive to the dignity and independence of all who work, and to labor itself. An honest poor mechanic, in a slave state, is put on a par with the negro slave mechanic—there being many of the latter, who are hired out by their owners. It is of no use to reason abstractly on this fact—  10 farther than to say that the pride of a northern American freeman, poor though he be,
will not comfortably stand such degradation.
The influence of the slave institution is to bring the dignity of labor down to the
level of slavery, which, God knows! is low enough. And this it is which must induce the
workingmen of the north, east, and west, to come up, to a man, in defence of their rights, their  15
honor, and that heritage of getting bread by the sweat of the brow, which we must leave to our
children. Let them utter forth, then, in tones as massive as becomes their stupendous
cause, that their calling shall not be sunk to the miserable level of what is little above
brutishness—sunk to be like owned goods, and driven cattle!—We call upon every
mechanic of the north, east, and west—upon the carpenter, in his rolled up sleeves, the  20
mason with his trowel, the stone-cutter with his brawny chest, the blacksmith with his
sooty face, the brown fisted ship-builder, whose clinking strokes rattle so merrily in
our  dock  yards—upon  shoemakers,  and  cartmen,  and  drivers,  and  paviers,  and
porters, and millwrights, and furriers, and rope-makers, and butchers, and machinists,
and tinmen, and tailors, and hatters, and coach and cabinet makers—upon the honest  25
sawyer and mortar-mixer, too, whose sinews are their own—and every hard-working
man—to speak in a voice whose great reverberations shall tell to all quarters that the
workingmen of the free United States, and their business, are not willing to be put on the
level of negro slaves, in territory which, if got at all, must be got by taxes sifted
eventually through upon them, and by their hard work and blood. But most of all we  30
call upon the farmers, the workers of the land—that prolific brood of brown faced
fathers and sons who swarm over the free states, and form the true bulwark of our
republic, mightier than walls or armies—upon them we call to say whether they too
will exist ‘free and independent’ not only in name but also by those social customs and
laws which are greater than constitutions—or only so by statute, while in reality they  35
are put down to an equality with slaves!
There can be no half way work in the matter of slavery in the new territory: we
must either have it there, or have it not. Now if either the slaves themselves, or their
owners, had fought or paid for or gained this new territory, there would be some
reason in the pro-slavery claims. But every body knows that the cost and work come,  40
forty-nine fiftieths of it, upon the free men, the middling classes and workingmen, who
do their own work and own no slaves. Shall these give up all to the aristocratic owners
of the south? Will even the poor white freemen of the south be willing to do this? It is
monstrous to ask such a thing!
Not the least curious part of the present position of this subject is, the fact who  45
advance the claims of slavery, and the singular manner in which those claims are half-
allowed by men at the north who ought to know better. The truth is that all practice
and theory—the real interest of the planters themselves—and the potential weight of

320	  


the opinions of all our great statesmen, southern as well as northern, from Washington to Silas Wright—are strongly arrayed in favor of limiting slavery to where it already exists. For this the clear eye of Washington looked longingly; for this the great voice of Jefferson pled, and his sacred fingers wrote; for this were uttered the prayers of
5    Franklin and Madison and Monroe. But now, in the south, stands a little band, strong in chivalry, refinement, and genius—headed by a sort of intellectual Saladin— assuming to speak in behalf of sovereign states, while in reality they utter their own idle theories; and disdainfully crying out against the rest of the republic, for whom their contempt is but illy concealed. The courage and high-tone of these men are points
10    in their favor, it must be confessed. With dexterous but brazen logic they profess to stand on the constitution against a principle whose very existence dates from some of the most revered formers of that constitution! And these—this band, really little in numbers, and which could be annihilated by one pulsation of the stout free heart of the north—these are the men who are making such insolent demands, in the face of the
15    working farmers and mechanics of the free states—the nine-tenths of the population of the republic. We admire the chivalric bearing (sometimes a sort of impudence) of those men. So we admire, as it is told in history, the dauntless conduct of kings and nobles when arraigned for punishment before an outraged and a too long-suffering people. . . . . . . . . . . . . But the course of moral light and human freedom, (and their
20    consequent happiness,) is not to be stayed by such men as they. Thousands of noble hearts at the north—the entire east—the uprousing giant of the free west—will surely, when the time comes, sweep over them and their doctrines as the advancing ocean tide obliterates the channel of some little brook that erewhile ran down the sands of its shore. Already the roar of the waters is heard; and if a few short sighted ones seek to
25    withstand it, the surge, terrible in its fury, will sweep them too in the ruin.





September 1, 1847
30


[A Public School]


    The large and commodious public school house intended for the colored pupils of this city is now nearly completed near Fort Greene. Outwardly there is no difference between this edifice and the better sort of those devoted to their more fortunate
35    brethren. We intend to take an early opportunity of investigating the interior.





September 2, 1847
40


[Country Schoolmaster]


    Our venerable contemporary of the Star comes down upon us yesterday in an article headed ‘‘the Eagle never stops to catch flies,’’—which assertion is sufficiently disproved by the fact that we have caught it. The Star seems to think it demolishes us
45    skin and bone by calling us ‘‘country schoolmaster.’’ We are rather pleased with the title, if given sincerely: a proper schoolmaster is one who is an honor and a benefit to his race—and many a more famous man don’t do half as much good.—Our ancient neighbor also talks of the ‘‘true scurrility’’ of our character as a schoolmaster; by which we are to suppose, not only that teachers are generally scurrilous persons, but that

  	321


there  is  also  such  a  thing  as  false  scurrility. . . . . . . . .  Our  venerable  friend  then propels in this wise, after magnanimously declining to draw our portrait:

    ‘‘This hectoring scrivener had better keep himself behind his smoky paragraphs,  which regularly throw his democratic friends into convulsions, and which have already done vast ser- vice to the whig cause. We would not for the world unseat him!’’	5

    Which is very kind indeed, considering how easily you could do it, Mr. Star. Moreover, ‘‘hectoring scrivener ’’ is good; but it ain’t so good as ‘‘smoky paragraphs.’’ The Star rejoices that it is ‘‘able to amuse.’’ All we have to say, then, is that it has cause for exceeding great joy: a more ridiculous paper is not printed in Yankeedom. We
should not volunteer this opinion; but, being provoked, and having a judgement  10
drawn from us, we may as well state the fact.
The Star copied our local reports, and being gently reminded thereof thought fit to
give us some of its impudence. Having thus sharply exposed its meanness, instead of
confessing its error, it now comes to abuse us personally—which is all the thanks we
get, after supplying it with the most valuable portion of its local reading! Naughty Star,  15
is this your decorum and dignity?





September 6, 1847

20
New Works from Harpers


    Miss  Pardoe’s  Louis  XIV.  This  charming  history  of  the  golden  age  of  French literature  and  the  most  renowned  of  all  kingly  courts,  has  now  reached  its  fifth number, to be completed in six.	25
    Pictorial history of England, No. 28, to be completed in 40. The history of religion is here entered upon.
    Howitt’s natural history illustrated, and Howitt’s tales in verse, are two pleasing little volumes by Mrs. Howitt, the latter of which is already well known to our juveniles. Mrs. Howitt’s verse is not the most polished in the world, but it is wonderfully taking  30 with the young folks, and will be read and admired where higher flights of the muse would be shunned.





September 7, 1847

35

‘‘Democratic Review’’


We have just received the Sept. no. of this able magazine and from a hasty notice
of its contents, feel justified in pronouncing it a highly interesting number. Its leader,  40
‘‘Chicago  Convention’’  embracing  the  speech  of  David  Dudly  Field,  esq.  is  well
timed. An article entitled ‘‘Cosmoyong’’ in which the author unmasks the absurdities
and  presuming  dogmas  of  the  self-styled  seer  and  clairvoyant,  Andrew  Jackson
Davis, deserves attention. We are pleased to notice the Reviewer who dares in his
criticism  to  leave  the  beaten  track  of  fulsome  adulation  and  commendation.  The  45
generally improved appearance of this magazine, as well as its able matter, will ensure
an addition to its already large list of subscribers. JON.  W. MOORE,  170 Broadway,
pub.

322	  



September 8, 1847
A Thought of Ours about Music in the United States

5		Great is the power of music over a people! As for us of America, we have long enough followed obedient and child-like in the track of the old world. We have received her tenors and her buffos, her operatic troupes and her vocalists, of all grades and complexions; listened to and applauded the songs made for a different state of society—made perhaps by royal genius, but made to please royal ears likewise; and it
10    is time that such listening and receiving should cease. The subtlest spirit of a nation is expressed through its music—and the music acts reciprocally upon the nation’s very soul.—Its effects may not be seen in a day, or a year, and yet these effects are potent invisibly. They enter into religious feelings—they tinge the manners and morals—they are active even in the choice of legislators and high magistrates. Tariff can be varied to
15    fit circumstances—(though we don’t believe it will ever be varied again in any way but a mere free-trade way,)—bad laws obliterated and good ones formed—those enact- ments which relate to commerce or national policy, built up or taken away, stretched or contracted, to suit the will of the government for the time being. But no human power can thoroughly suppress the spirit which lives in national lyrics, and sounds in the
20    favorite melodies sung by high and low.





September 10, 1847
25



Excellent Remarks on Gov. Dorr


    We meant before to have copied some excellent remarks on the character and life of governor Dorr—one who, (as nearly all ‘radical’ friends of the people are,) is even
30    yet made the butt of whig hatred and petty satire. The remarks in question are by a correspondent of the New York Evening Post, who has lately been travelling in Rhode Island. They do nothing more than justice to one of the truest and most noble-souled democrats within the borders of this great republic:
[Remarks on Governor Dorr omitted—78 ll.]
35




September 14, 1847

40


Residence in Brooklyn

    It is surprising to see what rapid strides our beautiful city has made this present season in the way of building and population. Blocks of splendid dwellings have sprung up in every direction, as by magic; and large private residences, almost palaces; and commodious houses for the ‘‘bone and sinew’’ portion of the community, are met
45    with in all parts of the city, even to the very outskirts. And what is more, these houses and blocks of houses, are occupied as fast as they are finished. There is a constant tide of population flowing in upon us, and of the better sort, from New York, and from all the surrounding region. And through the principal business streets, new stores are

  	323


continually built; and the ground stories of dwellings are being turned into spacious and beautiful trading rooms—all engaged, and filled with merchandise, almost before the paint is dry. A large and healthful business is springing up, having its base in Brooklyn itself, and in the towns adjoining, which find it quite as advantageous to buy
and sell here as across the river. Manufactures of every kind are increasing in our	5 midst; and the mechanical skill of Brooklyn is making a profitable reputation for itself abroad. These increase the number of purchasers, which reacts to increase the number
of  those  creating  the  purchasable  articles,  who  become  a  permanent  popula- tion. . . . . . . . . . . . As a place of residence, Brooklyn is not surpassed by any city in the region round about. Its schools; its churches; its beautiful streets, shaded with the  10 finest trees; its handsome dwellings; its public squares and parks, that are to be; all these make it a most desirable home. Our New York friends are beginning to find this out, and hence the rapid increase from that quarter. The ferries, instead of being regarded as an objection to those doing business on one side, and residing on the other,
are now looked upon as one of the advantages. Nothing is more refreshing in a hot day  15
than the pure delicious air that one gets in crossing. The warm and dusty wayfarers of
the great Babel look forward to this as a blessing; and often recross several times to
prolong the luxury. We have been tempted ourself repeatedly in this way. And in the
winter the possibility of long delay is wholly shut out by the excellent boats, and the
powerful engines by which they are propelled. Nobody complains on this score, now;  20
and the great increase of business men from New York shows that no importance is
attached to the bare possibility of occasional detention. Our neighbor will have to
brush up, and ‘do something’ soon, or she will lose the best part of her population, and
be  outstripped  in  the  race  of  prosperity  by  her  younger  but  more  comely  sister.
However, we won’t tease her—so here endeth the lesson.	25





September 14, 1847


The ‘‘Star’’ and ‘‘Credit’’	30


    The name of the Brooklyn Star has curiously enough become associated with the word ‘‘credit’’ for the first time during its existence; but in a manner which is infinitely discreditable to it. It has systematically purloined our local reports without rendering
us the usual quid pro quo. In order to get over the stigma it has now adopted a new  35 plan. Yesterday we observed a meagre abstract which the Tribune made from our report of the Brooklyn charter convention was republished and duly credited to that paper. Our contemporary ought to have more local spirit than to rely upon foreign papers for its accounts of local occurrences.
40




September 16, 1847


The Opening of the Campaign
45

    The general committees of the democracy, it will be seen, have called meetings of the electors of our creed in the respective wards and towns in the county, for Friday evening next, for the purpose of choosing delegates to the assembly district conven-
    
324	  


tions, each of which will send its representative to the state convention, to be held at Syracuse on Wednesday, the 29th September inst. Upon this latter body is devolved the duty of selecting, for the support of the democratic party, candidates for state officers,—the first to be elected under the new constitution. The importance of this
5    fact, and the necessity there is of a democratic government to execute the requirements of the new constitution, should be present to the mind of every democrat. And to obtain this ascendancy, our convention must give us candidates who will unite the whole force of the party in their behalf—who will by their influence heal the divisions, and subdue the turbulences which exist in some sections of the state, in the democratic
10    ranks; troubles which have already inflicted injury upon the cause, and if farther promoted by the parties to them, are destined to be yet more seriously felt. To hundreds and hundreds of our party—who do not understand, and will not inform themselves of, the causes of the divisions—these conflicts have a mercenary look, and many have turned away disgusted, ready to exclaim of the belligerents, ‘‘as plague o’
15    both your houses!’’ We confess to our ignorance of who are ‘‘Barnburners’’ or who are
‘‘Old Hunkers,’’ as applied to democrats; and we are glad to acknowledge that we are
intensely ignorant of the causes whence arose those euphonious appellations. We
recognize no clique or faction; our duty is to work for the good of Democratic principles,
which cannot divide themselves into quarreling bands; which are harmonious for the
20    welfare of all; and to the advancement and universal spread of which, we ever have
been and ever will be, devoted. It is time that such bickerings ceased—and we trust
that those who have been influential to distract will, for the honor of the principles
they profess, now exert their influence to heal; lest the breach, which is now trifling,
become ‘‘imminent deadly.’’
25	The only way for the party to secure satisfactory nominations, is for the members
of it to ‘‘come out’’ in their strength to the primary meetings of a campaign, and begin
right. The ward meetings govern the county conventions, and these control the state
conventions. So, if the great body of the electors neglect their ward meetings when
regularly appointed by the recognized party authorities, and the business be trans-
30    acted by a few, we think they should not complain if they are not entirely satisfied with
the nominations. Let the democrats of Brooklyn think of this, and resolve, each and
every one of them, to devote two or three hours to the cause at their respective ward
meetings to-morrow night.

35


September 16, 1847
East Long Island Correspondence: [Letter I]
40
STARTING    ON    THE    RAILROAD —BEDFORD —EAST    New   York—Jamaica—‘‘characters’’ there—Hempstead—Hicksville—Farmingdale, (formerly  ‘‘Hardscrabble,’’) finis. RIVERHEAD, SUFFOLK   COUNTY, SEPTEMBER  10TH.  At  half-past 1 o’clock yesterday
afternoon, I started in the L. I. railroad from the South ferry, on my way to the eastern
45    section of ‘‘old Nassau.’’ The usual splutter which precedes a start attended us, of
course.  Little  boys  with  newspapers,  friends  taking  leave,  women  uttering  ‘‘last
words,’’ Emerald ladies with peaches, (oranges now, are among the things that were,)
and small fry with various wares, surrounded the cars; and these, with the assistance

  	325


of the furious steam pipe, and certain obstreperous iron work that certes seemed to have some rickety disorder, made up a scene that would make the fortune of a melo- drama, if brought in at the close of an act—but which I was glad enough to escape from, I assure you.
    The first stopping place was at Bedford. So near to Brooklyn, our readers are most	5 of them familiar enough with the aspect of this pretty little hamlet; it has a great amount of shrubbery and trees, and that same richness of vegetation gives it, with all
its rurality, something of a fever-and-aguish aspect, which I should hardly like to live in the midst of, more than long enough to visit my hospitable friend W., at his cottage there.	10
    East New York comes next on the line. This settlement is quite a flat. To the north rises a spur of that range of hills which runs nearly through the island; and gives the settlement a relief from the character of monotony which most flat places possess. East New York was going to be, once, a very great city, and arrangements were made on a corresponding scale to have it so. A post office was established, also a school and  15 church, ditto a ‘‘land agency’’; after which there was some talk of a bank—(all this was years ago, in the ‘‘speculation times,’’)—and your humble servant himself was spoken
to about going there and establishing a newspaper.—Numerous lots were sold, and buildings erected.—The place did really offer a pretty natural situation, and the land presenting no obstacle to convenience of every kind in the way of forming a village,  20 golden dreams were paramount in the heads of more than its principal proprietor, Mr. Pitkin. But alas! like all the false business that was superinduced by the poisonous influence of the United States bank, and the paper speculators of those days, the bubble burst at last—and East New York almost burst with it. I observe that some clusters of buildings are still there, and most of them seem to be occupied. But the  25 whole village is devoid of that aspect of vitality which notes a thriving and growing place, where the inhabitants are ‘‘making money.’’
    After passing the Union race course—the scene of so many feverish contests, and of  the changing ownership of cash, and which presents, in its every day look so wondrous a difference from the days when great races are to come off—we arrived at  30
Jamaica. This is truly a charming place, and is occupied by many intellectual and wealthy people. It consisted a few years ago mostly of one main street, the turnpike; but of late years this has been intersected by a great many thoroughfares, and now Jamaica can almost present its claims to a cityfied character. It has as many churches, in
proportion, as Brooklyn—including that of ‘‘the old dominie,’’ Mr. Schoonmaker, who  35
used to preach alternately in Dutch and English—also the old methodist church, with
its little panes of window glass, about as big as boarding house pancakes. At this last,
is stationed one of the old fathers, the venerable presiding elder of the Long Island
district, Mr. Matthias, whose age and estimable character make him much endeared to
everybody. Jamaica has two newspapers, the Democrat, whose politics are signified by  40
its name, and the Farmer, a whig print.—Some good schools, for both sexes, and any
quantity of stores and public houses, are also in Jamaica.
We then stopped a moment at Brushville, two or three miles to the east, where the
Hempstead turnpike turns off from the one which leads down unto Jericho; and the
next  ‘‘station,’’  as  called  out  by  the  conductor,  is  Hempstead  ‘‘and  Branch,’’—  45
something like ‘‘Boston and New England.’’ The railroad, as you probably know, does
not run through the village of Hempstead, which is somewhat to be regretted. Said
village lies some two miles to the south; and the stopping place is a settlement built up

326	  


right in the middle of the plains, on the strength of that being the stopping place. It does not look so bare, though, as one would expect, from the character of the surrounding country. A track has been laid to connect with the village of Hempstead so that passengers can go from Brooklyn there, without getting out of the car: it goes down
5    from the main track by horse-engine instead of steam.—Hempstead is an old village, mostly celebrated for its clams, (indeed it is by some called Clamtown.) It is pretty in its situation, very wholesome, has a worthy population, and is considerable of a trading town. There is one newspaper here, the Inquirer, neutral in politics, an excellent academy, and divers churches. To the southeast from it stretches the great turnpike that
10    leads down along our islands’s ‘‘sea-girt shore,’’ even through the gates of Jerusalem and into the recess of Babylon the great.
    Hicksville comes next, (not stopping to make particular mention of Carl place and Westbury.) Ah, how are the mighty fallen! Hicksville was going to be ‘‘one of the cities,’’ when the railroad was first finished to it. We remember the time. Why, people
15    bought lots there, (only to think of it,) and speculated in them, just the same as the corn and flour dealers, last winter, went into their speculations.—And full as bitterly bitten were the dreamers of this ‘‘city on the plain,’’ as were our floury neighbors at the western end of South street. Hicksville now consists of one very large tavern, with a remarkably meagre aspect, and standing much in want of a coat of paint—one huge
20    car house—sundry pig-pens unoccupied—and a few houses, also unoccupied.—The only thing in which Hicksville has ample room and verge enough, and which a man might take without any one saying him nay, would be yard room—for potato patches, drying clothes, or any other purpose he saw fit. In every direction you look on nothing but the flat plains—of which I shall have more to say in one of these rambling epistles.
25		Farmingdale  lies  some  seven  or  eight  miles  farther  east.  In  the  vernacular hereabout it was called Hardscrabble, (this is the veritable place!) but the rage for improvement, not agreeing with Juliet, (wasn’t it Shakespere’s Juliet, who asked about that ‘rose’?) wisely thought that any other name would be more inviting than Hardscrabble. I think it was right.
30		— But I have made my letter already long enough for this day of short newspaper articles. Though I have headed my letter ‘‘East Long Island correspondence,’’—and though it has, as yet, got no farther than Farmingdale, I shall let the heading stand in view of what I shall write in future. I have dated it Riverhead, too, though I must describe several localities yet before I catch up, (or rather get the reader to catch up,) to
35    Riverhead. We are ‘‘enjoying’’ a pretty dull, continued, chilly rain, this morning—after having  had  said  rain,  in  a  still  heavier  developement,  during  the  night—and  a prospect of ‘‘the same subject continued,’’ during the day, and perhaps longer.



40

September 18, 1847
East Long Island Correspondence: [Letter II]

45    SCENERY  AFTER LEAVING  FARMINGDALE  (OTHERWISE  Hardscrabble,) Huntington and Baby- lon; Deer Park; scenery at the ‘‘stations’’; West Hills; Medford, Yaphank, and St. George’s manor; practicability of cultivating the wild land here; stopping at  Riverhead; &c. After leaving Farmingdale, we trudged east with our steam steed through brush,

  	327


plains, pine, scrub, oak, and all the other peculiarities of those singular diggins, at a speed considerably faster than ordinary wind. The next station to Farmingdale is Deer Park, somewhat half way between the village of Huntington on the north and Babylon the great on the south. You must not suppose, from the name of this station, that it
really is a park, or that deer are very plentifully here. On the contrary, few spots can	5 present a more dreary and barren appearance. The blackened stumps of pine trees, the uninviting glimpses of a bit of soil here and there, the monotonous pine tree, and one single house, used as a tavern, are all that relieve the eye. But it is very different both to
the north and south. There lie the ample and rich farms of the good old democratic town of Huntington. Thousands and thousands of acres of the best soil on Long Island  10 are comprised in them. To the north are apple orchards and grass lands, so thrifty that
the eye of an agriculturist might gloat for hours in the mere seeing of them. The land is diversified into hills and valleys; and on the tops of the highest elevations are little lakes of the purest water, which form brooks down the valleys, and irrigate many of
the neighboring fields. What is called the highest point of land on the island is at West  15
Hills, in the town of Huntington; it was made much use of by Mr. Hassler, the U. S.
chief of engineers, in the great plan of coast survey which has been going on for some
years past. The other part of Huntington, lying along the south bay, is of a different
character; it partakes of fish, both on the land as well as water. Fish is one of the most
powerful manures known, and under its influence the corn grows to an astonishing  20
height and size. I have thought, indeed, that the fault among the farmers here was in
putting too much of it, at a time, on their land. Like Macbeth’s ambition, it o’erleaps
itself and falls on the other side of fertility.
Beyond Deer Park are numerous petty ‘‘stations,’’ which always make me think of
new single habitations in the far west—with their cheerless looking houses, barefooted  25
children,  and  general  slovenliness.  These  ‘‘stations’’  are  appointed  generally  with
respect to some village or town off against them on the north or south turnpikes, and
consist mostly of but one or two structures, and those of the shabbiest kind. Sometimes
a little spot for gardening is cleared around them; but the energy of their owners seems
to give out before any great good has been done. You see the dwarfed and sickly  30
yellow corn, and the poor beans and potatoes; but no care is taken of them when they
promise  so  wretchedly,  which  redoubles  their  dwarfedness  and  sickliness.—I  am
firmly convinced, however, that a little intelligent knowledge of agriculture, aided by
its great handmaiden chemistry, would do wonders here, and soon make even these
sterile spots to bud and blossom like the rose. It is a pity that there is, among the  35
farmers of Long Island, an unusual share of the contempt of their craft for ‘‘book-
farming.’’
Medford, Yaphank, St. George’s manor, and so forth, are the names of some of the
stopping places here—to the south and north of which lie many rich and fertile
neighborhoods. The railroad seems to have been built with the design of running thro’  40
the most unproductive and uninviting parts of the island. For while on both sides,
adjacent to the shore, one could hardly go amiss of pleasant places, athwart the line of
the rails the eye rests, soon after leaving Jamaica, upon one continued spread of
apparently useless land, uncultivated and almost valueless—and this quite down to
Greenport. The question as to the practicability of cultivating this land has lately been  45
started. A very large portion of it doubtless is susceptible of cultivation.
Never having been to Riverhead, the county town of old Suffolk, I suddenly
resolved, when the conductor sung out its name, and the cars stopped there, to stop

328	  


there too. Accordingly, I clutched my carpet bag, and, in obedience to the prevailing spirit of haste, was soon out upon the platform.—The village itself lies a little south from the stopping place of the railroad, and is one of the oldest on Long Island. Of its character, peculiarities, and what I have delved out here in the way of incident—as
5    well as how I am ‘‘getting along’’ myself—I shall advise you more fully in another epistle.
    Since my setting down here, we have been blessed with a refreshing time in the way of a cold, dull, dark, blue-devilish, north-east rain—not a bit of sunshine or clear sky being even momentarily visible. I was in hopes, last evening, that a change was
10    coming  over  the  spirit  of  the  dream,  but  at  the  moment  of  the  present  writing, (Saturday morning, 11th,) the clouds are as heavy as ever. But never mind: is a man made to grumble merely because the skies look dark? Are not the skies there still?
    I heard last night that authentic news of Scott’s victories at the city of Mexico had been received in town. Consider me as on the top of the tallest pine tree in the present
15    neighborhood, wafting my gratified patriotism to you in the loudest sort of a ‘‘holler.’’





September 18, 1847
20


Paredes in Mexico


    It is an old maxim that where there is no gratitude there can be no good principles, and we think it eminently true of Great Britain. It is not of her people individually we would speak, though scarce a paper or magazine comes out, in that country, without
25    some sort of abuse of the people and government of the United States, witness the low and scurrilous remarks upon the ‘‘Model Republic,’’ in a late number of Blackwood’s magazine, wherein it is difficult to say which predominates, ignorance or malice. Our readers can decide by perusing the April number of 1847. Of these magazine and newspaper scribblers, however, we are not now to speak; but of the actions and
30    intrigues of a government—who, if gratitude and good feeling were to be found in a nation, might be expected to feel it towards the people of the United States.
    We would not vaunt of our generosity; it pains us even to say, that if clothing her naked and feeding her poor with bread, if sacrifices of national interests on disputed points,  and  long  forbearance  under  injuries  and  insults  can  entitle  a  people  to
35    gratitude, the United States have all those claims upon Great Britain. To this may be added the still greater obligation, of minding our own concerns and letting hers alone. When have we intrigued to stop her conquests in India, although our souls have been harrowed by the accounts day by day and year by year, of the atrocities perpetrated in that region by her ruthless soldiery—under still more ruthless commanders?
40		How have we interfered in relation to China, where a poisonous drug, which was degrading her people by reducing them to the last stage of wretchedness, was forced upon them at the point of the bayonet; her cities bombarded, her people slain and the country robbed of its treasure, because her rulers had the magnanimity to forbid its importation?  Our  prayers  were  all  that  we  opposed  to  this  most  iniquitous  war,
45    aggravated as it was, by the cant of these pretended christians, who boasted that they were about to introduce true religion into China. Whatever our duty to heaven might have been, in standing and looking on, with our arms folded, while these enormities

  	329


were perpetrated, yet certain it is, our ‘‘sin to heaven, was truth to her;’’ and how have we been rewarded?
    Why, at this moment she is intriguing with all her might, against us in Mexico, upon no doubt the base pretext to other powers, that she wished to prevent the complete subjugation of Mexico by her annexation to the United States—a thing she	5 does not believe, and has no reason to dread if it were so, as the only evil that could flow from it, would be to establish a peaceable liberal government, where the most horrible despotism now exists, and to induce a horde of mountain robbers to become quiet and orderly citizens and peaceable cultivators of the earth. That having once enjoyed the blessings of a free government, they might never after be willing to change  10 it, is highly probable; and here is the rub, they never could be induced to consent to a monarchy. As a matter of course, then, the time to intrigue with them, is while they are
in a state of semibarbarism.
Where the authorities of Vera Cruz were, when they smuggled Paredes through,
we cannot conceive; or, why, when they had been informed of the treachery, they had  15
not sent the ship that brought him to the bottom—sunk her before she could get out of
the harbor, we have yet to learn; and we must say the blundering of one side is more
inexplicable to us, than the treachery of the other.

20


September 20, 1847
East Long Island Correspondence: [Letter III]
25
    Southold, Sept. 14th.—Seeing, to-day, as I passed one of the country stores, a real Indian, (at least as far as there are any of that race, now-a-days; that is, perhaps, an Indian whose blood is only thinned by two or three degrees of mixture,) my thoughts were turned toward the aboriginal inhabitants of this island. A populous and powerful race! for such they once were. Some authorities assert that, at the earliest approach of  30 the whites to this part of the continent, and for a time after, the Indian inhabitants of Long Island numbered a million and a half. This may be an over-estimate; but the red race here was certainly very numerous, as is evidenced by many tokens. ‘‘An ancient Indian,’’ says one tradition, ‘‘more than a hundred years ago, declared to one of the earliest inhabitants of Easthampton, that within his recollection the natives were as  35 many as the spears of grass. And if, said he, stretching his hands over the ground, you
can count these, then, when I was a boy, you could have reckoned their number.’’
. . . . . . . . . Another token is the immense shell-banks, at intervals, all along the shores
of the island—some of them literally ‘‘mountain high.’’ Another is the immense tract
devoted to the fields of Indian corn.	40
Unlike the present arrangement, the seat of the greatest aboriginal population and
power was on the eastern extremity of Long Island. On the peninsula of Montauk
dwelt the royal tribe;—and there lived and ruled the noble Wyandanch; (will not the
Union ferry company be persuaded to take off the most miserably wrong terminative
of ‘‘dank,’’ from the boat they pretend to christen after the old chief?) This chief held a  45
position not unlike our American president. On the island were thirteen separate
tribes, (our Kings county was occupied by the ‘‘Canarsees,’’) who were united in one

330	  


general confederacy, at the head of which was Wyandanch. From Montauk, whose white  sides  resounded  forever  with  the  mighty  voice  of  the  sea,  went  forth  the supreme commands and decisions. Here, too, was the holiest of the burial places, the sacred spots to all savage nations, and peculiarly so to our North American Indians.
5    On Montauk, even now, may also be seen remains of aboriginal fortifications, one of which at what is now called ‘‘Fort Hill,’’ must have been a work of art indeed. It had ramparts and parapets, ditches around, and huge towers at each of four corners—and is estimated to have afforded conveniences for three or four hundred men, and to evince  singular  knowledge  of  warfare,  even  as  understood  among  what  we  call
10    civilized nations. Wars, indeed, added to pestilence, and most of all the use of the
‘fire-water,’ thinned off the Indian population from the earlier settlement of the whites,
until there are hardly any remaining. I believe there are but two clusters of Indian
families that can be called settlements, now on the island. One is at Shinnecock, and
consists of some hundred and forty or fifty persons: the other is down on Montauk,
15    and does not comprise a baker ’s dozen. Sad remnants, these, of the sovereign sway
and the old majesty there!




20    September 22, 1847
Disgraceful to the Profession of Editor!

We have generally taken some pride in the character of our profession, which is
25    acknowledged on all sides to have rather beyond the average of good-heartedness,
generosity, and manly virtue. But it seems that there are some black sheep—at least in
Paris. We don’t know when we have read of a more villainous case, than that, as
related below, which resulted in poor Mr. Dujarrier ’s death. Mr. D. was one of the edi-
tors of the Presse, a leading daily of Paris. He was killed in a duel by a brother journalist
30    named Beauvollon. The latter was tried for his murder and acquitted; but on the trial
certain facts transpired which created a suspicion that Dujarrier was not exactly ‘‘taken
off’’ by the rules of honor! [Account of case omitted—31 ll.]




35
September 23, 1847



When Will the War Be Ended?


A  question  which  any  one  may  ask,  but  which  no  one  can  answer.  Of  this,
40    however, we are sure, that ordering out ten thousand men at a time, won’t do it. Let
fifty thousand fresh troops be raised and sent forward with all possible despatch, and
with those already there something may be done to show the Mexicans that we are in
earnest. This talk about a peace party is all moonshine, until we are able to protect
them from their own military tyrants; and secure their property from military seizure,
45    or the plunder of guerrilla robbers. We must make our authority respectable—we must
make our possession of the country safe to the people, and give them security in the
pursuit of their lawful occupations, and in their trade and traffic with our army. It is

  	331


idle to garrison a town with ten or twenty or five hundred men, while as many thousands of guerrillas, the finest horsemen, riding the finest animals in the land, are sweeping around the place to pounce upon them, and all having intercourse with them—whenever a dozen yards from the walls.
We do not know what is the expectation or purpose of the government; but we are	5
persuaded that if the work is well done, it must be quickly done.—Every body knows
we can beat the Mexicans, four to one. Every body knows we can take possession of
the country. But this is not the thing. We must hold possession, and so manage that
they must stay beat. This can not be done with 12 or 30,000 men, in the midst of a
population of seven or eight millions. It can not be done by barely keeping open our  10
lines of communication. We must protect the people, inspire them with confidence in
our permanent power—power for the future as well as the present. We must clear the
country of robbers and military usurpers; garrison the large towns with large and
efficient forces, which shall make all the surrounding regions feel secure. We must
make the intercourse and trade of the interior with the ports of entry perfectly safe, so  15
that the goods imported may find a market, without the purchasers fearing to be
lassoed on their return, for having dealings with the ‘‘Yankee heretics and robbers.’’—
The miserable cry of expenses and running the country in debt is too late now. Every
copper saved in this way costs a dollar in the end, and only protracts the war. God
knows we have no love for this or any kind of war; but we know that this temporising,  20
delaying, negotiating, peace-begging policy with an ignorant, prejudiced, and per-
fectly faithless people, is not the way to end the contest. There is no middle course—
either we must back out of it entirely, or we must drive it through with a vigorous hand.
General Scott may enter the capital, but he will find nothing there, we fancy, but
empty houses, deserted cathedrals and churches, and plenty of beggars, thieves and  25
assassins—and all he can do, with his present force, is to turn round and march out
again. And General Taylor can do the same at San Luis. And what then? Where is the
government, the treaty, the peace so long promised? and even if obtained, how long
will it last?
Our prophecy from the beginning has been: place 30,000 disciplined troops at  30
Mexico; and as many more on the lines of communication with Vera Cruz and the Rio
Grande. Under the protection of these let the peace party (which embraces the best
part of the citizens, though they dare not speak as matters stand now,) establish a
government, whose efficiency and permanency shall be guarantied by the United
States. This will bring out enterprise, open the way for manufacturers and commerce,  35
into which the immense dead capital of the country will find its way, as soon as its
owners can be assured it will be free from seizure and forced loans. Agriculture will
develope the natural resources of the country, really one of the finest in the world, after
all; and the increase of products and of trade will react in the increase of enterprise and
of an active and business population from abroad. Then at the end of this will come an  40
increase of printing presses, papers, books, education and general intelligence, and
lastly, the happiness of the masses, now so sunk in ignorance and superstition.
To accomplish this may require the force above named for years, though it may be
gradually lessened as confidence and security are established. To accomplish this will
cost millions, but it will abundantly pay. This is the best kind of conquest; and so  45
doing, in the end we shall have a sister republic, whose alliance will be both an honor
and a source of strength.

332	  


    Note.—The above article was written antecedent to the late battles and victories. But the same views are entertained still; and little hope exists in our mind from any
‘‘patched up’’ peace.

5



September 24, 1847


10



Brooklyn Schools and Teachers

    After their summer vacation, our public schools have now resumed their sessions, and appear to be in the full tide of successful experiment. We are told that the attendance is large and that the system generally is working well. Doubtless this is true to a considerable extent; still, what with the munificent sums which are poured out by
15    the liberality of the state, for the use of the schools, added to the equal sums raised by local tax, we cannot but think a wider, deeper, and better result might be attained. We are not satisfied with teaching the children of the people nothing more than ‘‘the three r ’s—reading, ’riting, and ’rithmetic.’’
There are, moreover, many persons among us, even in official station, who look on
20    a teacher as one whose business it is to perform a well-beaten round of mechanical
operations. He is to sit a certain length of time upon a chair or stool, and is to hold in
his hand sundry instruments of torture. He is every now and then to take up books,
from which he is to utter certain set words all handsomely arranged in lines one under
the other; and in order that he may know his part of the performance, little crooked
25    marks are put at the ends of the lines, to show that they are questions. These are to be
rejoined to by the boy or girl, with certain other lines of words, which the learner is
required to say by heart at the risk of getting flogged. School keeping, according to
notions of the people we allude to, is a well established system, to be gone through
with on the same principle as the working of machines in a factory—just so much
30    pulling and hauling—and just so many turnings and twistings. These persons, too, are
the declared enemies of innovation. An unanswerable argument with them is: When I
was a boy it was so and so. As to new fashions and new modes, they consider them to
be all inventions of the devil. And though in all probability sensible men in many
things—their foolishness and obstinacy in this are so great, that a man of clear views
35    hardly knows whether to be most provoked at them or sorry for their ignorance.




September 24, 1847
40
Educational Works Recently Published by the Harpers

    Among the works lately issued in this country, which peculiarly deserve commendation—and none the less so because their sphere is in the line of the teacher
45    and the learner—are the educational volumes published during a few years past, from the establishment of Harper brothers, in New York city. We have before remarked in these columns that the proper preparation of books for the young is an object really worthy of genius and high talent; that the spreading before the minds of intelligent boys and girls, of divers subjects in knowledge that may enter into and become a part

  	333


of those minds, demands indeed the extremest care and the best abilities. Thus we have regretted to see that the art of making school books, and miscellaneous volumes for youth, did not, some years ago, receive that attention which we think it deserved.— But this is no longer the case. Particularly to the preparation of the works mentioned in
the following paragraphs, has the ability and care so desirable, been brought.	5
Harper ’s New York Class Book, is by one of our Brooklyn teachers, Mr. William
Russell, attached as elocutionist to the Joralemon street academy. It is a selection of
reading lessons—an excellent selection, too—comprising outlines of the geography,
and history of New York; biographical notices of eminent individuals; sketches of
scenery and natural history, accounts of public institutions, &c. . . . . . . . . . Professor  10
Schmitz’s History of Rome is another excellent work, embodying the clearer information
of that old land, which modern writers have brought to light.
Hackley’s works, the School Algebra, the Elementary course on Geometry, and the
Treatise on Algebra, are all spoken of in favorable terms by mathematicians. They are for
sale, (as are also the others,) at Wilder ’s, Elliott’s, and Smith’s bookstores in this city.  15
Draper ’s Text-book on Chemistry has been more lately issued—and, of it (with,
indeed, all the foregoing,) the reader may remember our notices at the time the books
first appeared. Still later, however, the Harpers have issued Draper ’s Text-book on
Natural Philosophy, in handsome form, and possessing, if possible, increased claims to
public patronage. Who will not agree with the author in the following opinions? ‘‘The  20
main object of a teacher,’’ says he, ‘‘should be to communicate a clear and general view
of the great features of his science, and to do this in an agreeable and short manner. It is
too often forgotten that the beginner knows nothing; and the first thing to be done is to
awaken in him an interest in the study, and to present to him a view of the scientific
relations of those natural objects with which he is most familiar. When his curiosity is  25
aroused, he will readily go through things that are abstract and forbidding; which, had
they been present at first, would have discouraged him.’’ And yet these opinions,
(which  are  carried  out  in  the  preparation  of  Mr.  Draper ’s  books,)  are  too  often
forgotten both by teachers and the authors of educational works. . . . . . We have but to
add that these books are all well printed, and are bound in a neat and durable manner.  30





September 27, 1847


Books Lately Published	35


    ‘‘Louis the Fourteenth, and the court of France in the seventeenth century; by Miss Pardoe; beautifully embellished by numerous engravings, portraits etc.’’ This elegant republication, by the Harpers, is now complete, the sixth part having been issued some days since. With nearly all the interest of a well-wrought work of fiction, it partakes of  40 the graphic reality of history.
    ‘‘Chambers’s Miscellany of useful and entertaining knowledge,’’ (Burgess, Stringer & company 222 Broadway, New York publishers.) This republication will be hailed with pleasure by all the lovers of reading that is reading. At the very low price of twenty-
five cents, which is the cost of each number, one gets in convenient form several  45 excellent  books,  bound  in  a  single  volume.  For  instance  the  first  number  of  the Miscellany contains the life of Louis Phillippe, a tale of Norfolk island, the story of Colbert,  the  Employer  and  the  Employed,  Time  enough,  the  manual  for  Infant Management, Piccioli, and Life in the Bush—eight good books for the sum we have

334	  


named! The second and third numbers, which comprise all thus far republished, are equally liberal in quantity. We recommend our Long Island public, without exception, to patronize this truly cheap and useful work.
‘‘The Journeyman Joiner, or the companion of the tour of France,’’ by George Sand,
5    translated by Francis Geo. Shaw, published by Wm. H. Graham, Tribune buildings,
New York. That Madame Sands’s works are looked upon by a portion of the public,
and of critics, with a feeling of great repugnance, there is no denying. But the talented
French woman is nevertheless one of a class much needed in the world—needed lest
the world stagnate in wrongs merely from precedent. We are fully of the belief that
10    ‘free  discussion,’  upon  any  subject  of  general  and  profound  interest,  is  not  only
allowable, but in most cases desirable. And this is all we have to say to those who
would put Madame Sands’s books down by a mere flourish of prejudice. . . . . . . . . . 
The ‘‘Journeyman Joiner’’ is a work of very great interest as a story. Indeed we know of
few that are more so. It is well translated, and the typographical execution is very fair.
15    The enterprising publishers, we believe, have also issued translations of most other of
Madame Sands’s works, ‘‘Consuelo,’’ and its sequel, ‘‘the Countess of Rudolstadt.’’
Virtue’s Devotional Family Bible has reached its 54th number. In this is contained a
superb plate of ‘‘the hand writing on the wall,’’ after a design new to us, but which is
highly artistic, and is well executed. The paper and print of this edition are of the first
20    quality.
‘‘Tales and Sketches, by the late William L. Stone,’’ (Harpers pub.) have reached a
second edition. We like these stories first because they are thoroughly American in
their  subjects,  characters  and  illustrations,  and  sentiments;  secondly  because  the
style is clear and of a purer English than that of most of the British tale-writers
25    themselves.—The first story, ‘‘Mercy Disborough,’’ is a particularly interesting one.
‘‘The Whip-poor-will; by Joseph Alden, D.D.’’ (Gates & Stedman, corner of Nassau
and Beekman streets, New York). A pretty little volume for youth—not only neat in its
style, but of interest in the moral.
Berford & co., 2 Astor house, New York, continue to issue, for this section of the
30    United States, that sterling weekly compend, Littell’s Living Age, which, with the next
number,  177,  commences  a  new  volume,  affording  an  excellent  opportunity  to
subscribe. The Age is the best periodical of its kind that we know of.
‘‘A simple story,’’ by Mrs. Inchibald, forms no. 102 of Harpers’ library of select
novels. The price is 25 cents. The story is a good and moral one—which may be said of
35    everything Mrs. Inchibald wrote.
‘‘The Miser’s daughter’’ by Wm. Harrison Ainsworth, has been republished by
Williams brothers, 24 Ann street, N. Y. The readers of Mr. Ainsworth’s former novels
will find in this a continuation of his style. It is full of change and incident, and makes
quite an interesting story. The price of the N. Y. edition is 50 cents.
40




September 28, 1847

45


Dilatoriness

    If the greatness of a ‘‘body,’’ is in proportion to its moving ‘‘slow,’’ the municipal power of Brooklyn about these times, must be of Olympian proportions! Some four weeks have now been used up in patching that little bit of Fulton street, (hardly four
    
  	335


rods in length,) just at its junction with Washington, Court, and Pierrepont, and with Myrtle avenue. This is, by all odds, the very part of all Brooklyn which is most used as a thoroughfare for vehicles; and this has been barred off by big poles, trees, piles of stones, etc., so that the tide of travel has to turn off to the right hand and to the left—to
the serious inconvenience and confusion of drivers, passengers, and people in general.	5
Now if this were an unavoidable result, it would be bad enough—but when one comes
to know that there is not the least earthly necessity for it, human patience may well be
excused for ‘‘blowing out’’ a little. The work should, at the utmost, have taken no more
than four or five days; in which limits it could easily have been performed, had parties
done their duty. The executive officers of our city are plainly derelict in this thing. They  10
should have been imperative in pushing on such work, in such a place, to its speediest
termination.





September 28, 1847

15

[Book Notice]


    ‘‘Pastourel,’’ by Frederick Soulie, translated from the French by Samuel Spring, published by Williams, 24 Ann st. N. Y.; and ‘‘the Countess of Morion,’’ by the same  20 author, translated by Henry Wm. Herbert, (same publishers,) are works of that school
of novels, exciting, dashy, full of incident, with not a little improbability, but whose vein suits so well with the florid appetite of youth and impulse. The translators have executed their duty fairly, and there is no denying that the books are interesting. We understand that the demand for these works is large. The price is 50 cents per volume.  25
    The Union Magazine for October is really one of the best collections of original reading, ‘useful and ornamental,’ that we have seen for years—much better than we supposed a ‘fashionable monthly’ capable of giving. We are sorry to see, however, the old style of namby-pamby in the pictures. Give us fresh originals, Mr. Post! fit to
precede the fine writing of the after pages, and worthy the best editor of any of its  30
class of magazines—all of which we think Mrs. Kirkland. . . . . . . . The Columbian has
a couple of quite fair pictures, ‘‘little rogues in trouble,’’ and ‘‘rural pastime,’’ the latter
rather  milk-and-waterish,  however.  The  usual  writers  contribute  to  its  pages.—
(Ormsby & Hackett, 116 Fulton street, New York.)
35




September 29, 1847


Hope for Ireland!
40

    We have just been reading a verbatim report of the lecture on Ireland, delivered in this city (at the institute in Washington street,) last winter by the Rev. Mr. Giles. If our readers,—as many of them must—recollect that noble oration as we do, they must remember what a vastly superior discourse it was to the common run of ‘able’ lectures. Indeed, we thought at the time, and so expressed our mind in the paper the next day,  45 that it was one of the very few finished pieces of eloquence, full and harmonious in all
its parts, that we ever listened to.
We have, as we said, been reading it again. And it falls upon the appreciation in

336	  


print with redoubled zest. The whole of the causes, the philosophy, of the distress in Ireland, is mapped out before the reader. A briefly clear history of Ireland is given— its wrongs, its sufferings, its struggles, and the systematic withdrawal of its very stamina and nutriment under English rule. By’r troth! the blood tingles, even in our
5    new world veins, when we hear of such things as are related in history, and in this lecture!
    But our purpose, now, is to transcribe something more pleasant and consolatory— the winding up of Mr. Giles’ truly brilliant oration. It breathes hope yet for Ireland; and  to  those  who  remember  the  enthusiasm  with  which  the  eloquent  speaker
10    delivered it, we are assured it will be doubly welcomed now in our columns: [Quotation omitted—119 ll.]




15    September 29, 1847
[‘‘The New Juvenile Drawing Book’’]

‘‘The new Juvenile Drawing Book’’; by Henry Egbert, jr., with numerous illustra-
20    tions on stone, (from T. D. Smith’s bookstore, 202 Fulton street, Brooklyn,) appears
to us an unusually fit work to place in the hands of youth learning to draw. We
have noticed in several of the public schools of this city, that drawing is among the
studies pursued; and we specially recommend to those schools the use of this little
work.
25




September 29, 1847

30


[Literary Notices]

    ‘‘Half hours with the best Authors,’’ by Charles Knight, published in America by Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York. (We have unavoidably been compelled to postpone noticing this work till the present time; and even now avail ourselves of the excellent judgment of a contemporary, in another city.) The selections in this book are
35    really what they claim to be—selections taken from the best and highest works in all literature, and gems from the rich treasury of instruction, which the master minds of the world have heaped together.—It is within itself a complete course of general reading, and seems to be peculiarly fitted for a reading book in seminaries of learning, and of such fitness good evidence is discoverable in the fact that it is already being thus
40    introduced in the schools of New York city. We invite the attention of those having charge of our popular institutions of learning, to its adaptation to this purpose. The selections are not wanting in intrinsic worth. Froissart, Hume, Guizot, Clarendon, Hallam and Carlyle are given in their most elegant historical and literary costume; divinity and religious instructions drop from the lips of Bishop Hall, Jeremy Taylor,
45    Hooker, Pascal and Doddridge; Herschell, Bacon and Sir Humphrey Davy offer us their philosophical wealth; Messinger, Coleridge, Spenser, Goethe, Wordsworth and Pope scatter the flowers of poesy along our path; we listen to our own venerable ones,

  	337


Franklin, and Jefferson; and Charles Lamb, Hazlitt, Washington Irving, Verplanck and a host of others complete the intellectual company. With these ‘‘best authors’’ we could be content to pass not a few ‘‘half-hours,’’ and we think it augurs well of the public taste, that books such as this are in sufficient demand to warrant their production in
a shape so neat and elegant. The place which of right belongs to these authors, has	5
been too long usurped by ephemeral novelists and essayists of a day, and therefore we
can but feel gratified to see them once more assuming their appropriate station. This
work contains nos. 105 and 106 of the library of choice reading, or ‘‘books which are
books’’—a library which has already won itself an enviable reputation.
‘‘Random shots and Southern Breezes, containing critical remarks on the southern  10
states and southern institutions, with semi-serious observations on men and manners;
by  Louis  Fitzgerald  Tasistro,’’  has  been  issued—a  second  edition  of  it—by  the
Harpers.  It  is  an  entertaining,  gossiping,  sketch  of  travels  through  the  southern
states—written in a good-natured and lively vein.
‘‘Wagner, the Wehr wolf,’’ is the melo-dramatic title of a novel, price 50 cents,  15
written by G. W. M. Reynolds, author of ‘‘Life in London,’’ and published by Williams
brothers, 24 Ann street, N. Y.—The main incident in the plot of the story is founded on
an  old  superstition  current  in  France,  years  ago.  The  book  is  embellished  with
numerous pictures, and the price is 50 cents.
20



September 30, 1847
Ventilation in Our Brooklyn School Rooms	25

    In one of our visits to a primary public school in a basement of the building, in this city, not long since, we were fully impressed with the wisdom of such remarks as the following from Horace Mann:
[Quotation about poor ventilation in some school rooms omitted—14 ll.]	30




October 2, 1847
35
Something Which Every Youth Should Read

    The following article—which we see credited to a paper called the School Arena, conducted and written by the students at the Flushing institute, on this island— exhibits, with some of the deepest knowledge of human nature, that rare power of  40 putting sound common sense in guise and language most appropriate to the youthful mind. We should think the person who could write such articles as the following, would be admirably fitted for the high situation of educator—than whom we know none more honorable. We proceed to the extract:
45
    BOYS.—All men were once boys. Does it follow that all boys will certainly become men? Not at all. Some may find very early graves. And some, though they may live to see extreme old age,
    
338	  


will continue to be only boys. All boys intend to be men and expect to be. Some seem to think that being comfortably fed, and clothed, and housed, and aired, time itself will ripen them, as it does the fruits of the field. It may. But it will not make MEN   of  them.
How is a boy to know whether he is to become a man or a fool? Are there in boyhood any
5    marks which may be regarded as infallible indications of future character? Probably there are no
infallible marks. Youths of the fairest promise sometimes disappoint the hopes, and  lads of the
worst  class sometimes disappoint the fears, of their best friends. The changes of  character,
however, that sometimes occur in persons of apparent confirmed habits, are  exceptions to a
general rule, and are to be accounted for, upon principles fitted to alarm the fears of all youth,
10    rather than to encourage the hopes of any. As a general rule, the moral and intellectual qualities
of the future may appear plainly in the boy; not to the superficial observer indeed, but to the eye
of  the experienced judge of  character.
In some respects all boys are alike. All eat, and drink, and sleep. All wish to be thought manly,
and think they are so. Now if they could agree in opinion as to what is and what is not manly in
15    thought, feeling and action, there would be much greater similarity of character among  them.
Most boys are in ignorance, and what is still worse, many of them are in error, as to the real
difference between the man and the boy. A large majority evidently sigh to be twenty-one, only
for the sake of doing as they please, which is to them the sumum bonum of this world, and the
characteristic  between  the  man  and  the  boy.  Governed  by  this  conviction,  they  often  seek
20    occasion to display this hostility to government as the best proof of early manhood. Alas! how
perfect their delusion. If they could but be enlightened on this point, and be content with the
simple discharge of what they know to be their daily duty, men might soon be properly defined
‘‘taller boys,’’ and boys ‘‘shorter  men.’’





25    October 2, 1847


Music at Midnight


    Some very smooth and pleasant music made vocal that neighborhood of Prince street between Willoughby and Myrtle avenue, last evening. The clear twang of a
30    ‘‘light guitar ’’ accompanied by several voices, a falsetto among the rest, discoursed many good pieces. The music and songs were of foreign birth—‘‘very choice Italian’’ for what we know. Of a certes, however, we know that we were much pleased with the same, and take this opportunity, for want of a better, to present our grateful thanks for the compliment. In the small hours of the night, amid the hushed air, such harmony
35    was refreshing indeed.





40    October 9, 1847



Mr. James’s Life of Henry IV of France


    More public good was achieved in the age of Henry IV of France and Navarre than almost in any previous epoch. The history of his court and cabinet as well as
45    camp, must therefore be fraught with unusual attraction and interest. The work is beautifully printed, by the Harpers, uniformly with the charming volumes of Miss Pardoe on the age of Louis XIV. Part 2 of this work is now ready.

  	339




October 11, 1847


Late Publications


    Old and not unwelcome reminiscences are to us brought up by half-idly looking o’er the pages of a new edition of the tales of ‘‘the Arabian Nights,’’ (just published, in	5 six parts, by C. S. Francis, 252 Broadway, N. Y.)—They bring up the loving and greedy eagerness with which boyhood read these tales—a love surpassing the love for pud- dings and confectionary!—What a gorgeous world to revel in withal!—the turbans and mirrors, the gemmed garments, the beautiful women, the slaves, the cutting off of heads, the magic changes, the dwarfs, the spiteful old sorcerers, the disguises, the dark  10 caves, the cobblers transformed into princes—O, it was indeed gorgeous! Then that caliph, always a-going through the by streets of the city at night—what on earth could
be more novel and interesting? . . . . . . . . . Certain moralists there are, of the vinegar complexion, who would forbid all works of fiction to the young. Yet such is always a foolish interdict. The minds of boys and girls warm and expand—become rich and  15 generous—under the aspect of such florid pages as those of Robinson Crusoe, the Arabian Nights, Marco Polo, and the like. We recommend this handsomely printed edition of the middle named, as a real family book.
‘‘Camp and Quarter-deck,’’ a work giving a description of the various battles fought
on land and at sea from the breaking out of the French revolution to the battle of Waterloo,  20
(1792 to 1815,) has been issued by Burgess, Stringer, and co., 222 Broadway, New York,
at the price of 25 cents.—It has several engravings, including a capital one of Napoleon.
The Harpers send us a copy from a new edition of Morse’s ‘‘School geography and
atlas.’’ The value of this geography and its especial adoption to be used in schools, and
for young people generally, are already established. This edition is new, in the proper  25
sense. The numerous maps have been re-engraved and the entire work corrected up to
the present time. We know of no geography and atlas, for it is both, so complete, at so
low a price.
Also,  from  the  same  house,  ‘‘the  Boy’s  Autumn  Book,’’  by  Thos.  Miller.  A
charmingly  printed,  and  sweet-reading  volume!  It  is  a  poet’s  description  of  the  30
scenery, rural life and country amusements incident to the season upon which it treats.
The illustrations are very superior, and there is more interest in the reading contents
than in ninety out of every hundred of books for youth.
‘‘Mackenzie’s works’’ have been issued by the Harpers in three finely printed parts,
at 25 cents each. These are old and good—moral withal. A beautiful copy is here  35
placed  within  every  reader ’s  reach,  and  the  pleasure  of  possessing  them,  we
apprehend, will be very generally indulged.





October 12, 1847

40

[Periodical Review]


    We have repeatedly spoken of the merits of that triton among the minnows, Littell’s  Living  Age  (Berford,  Astor  house,  New  York,)—one  of  the  best  weeklies,  45 (though with just a smattering of an aristocratic tinge) published in our language. No.
178 is on hand with its usual variety of gatherings from the foreign periodicals, and

340	  


some bits from the domestic. The editor announces that he has engaged the services of an American gentleman living in Paris, holding a high office under the United States, to prepare for each number of the Living Age a full account of the politics of Europe, and  the  literature  and  science  of  France.  The  series  will  begin  in  November.  We
5    welcome this as an excellent ‘‘feature,’’ and a long desired thing for American readers.




October 15, 1847
10
The War, the Administration, and the Coming Election

    By their avowed intentions, if the whigs should gain the complete control of power sufficient for that purpose, they would bring back our armies from Mexico, stop
15    any further supplies, and virtually acknowledge this republic beaten! as it certainly would then be disgraced. Much as we want peace, we never want it in that way. At present we cannot say we think the popular feeling is in favor of peace with Mexico, either. It surely would not brook our government’s yielding any thing more to Mexico, in the way of first propositions—or yielding an inch of territory this side of the Rio
20    Grande—nor too much of the territory of the north and west. We say yielding it— because it really is ours now, by conquest, and by possession. It is well enough for certain persons to cavil at such a sort of ownership; but what, in reality, is the ownership of the whole of this continent, but founded on similar bases?
Whether the administration did wisely in getting into this war or not, is no
25    question for present argument. But we defy any one to say they have not carried it on
brilliantly,  and  with  remarkable  discretion,  since  we  are  in  it.  The  whole  world
acknowledges that—even the sneering English papers!
In the coming election it should be remembered that the candidates presented by
the whigs are opponents of the national cause, in the matter of this war with Mexico. Their
30    recognized organs have teemed with the vilest abuse of our armies—and even with
prayers for Mexican success, in the most infamous manner! Let not a patriotic people
forget these things. Let it not be said that the democratic party, for any minor differ-
ences, neglected to put the ban of their disapprobation on candidates of the New York
Tribune and Albany Evening Journal school. Nor is there any other way to express this
35    disapprobation, than voting the democratic ticket. Waiving all discussion of other
points, it must be acknowledged that that is the ticket; and what reason has Kings
county, or any part of Long Island, to be backward in the ancient loyalty to our noble
principles? None whatever! And we think we know too well the patriotism of our citi-
zens, to fear that suggestions of this sort will not receive their deep and favorable regard.
40



October 18, 1847
45	Some Thoughts about This Matter of the Washington Monument

Such enthusiasm was hardly needed to prove how spontaneously the hearts of the
American people respond to the name of WASHINGTON —and yet it is very glorious to

  	341


see the people—thousands and hundreds of thousands of them—eagerly rushing to join in a testimony like the forthcoming monumental procession. But there is one point in which we confess to feel a pain; and that is, the plan of the structure of this monument. In a late visit to the American institute fair, we saw a picture underlined
‘‘Washington monument,’’ and were assured by an old gentleman who was receiving	5 in  a  book  subscriptions  for  the  same,  that  that  was  the  plan  fixed  upon  by  the monument  committee.  Of  that  plan,  we  cannot  find  terms  to  speak  in  sufficient contempt! It is a mixture without uniformity, without apparent design, and certainly without the least appropriateness. One of our New York contemporaries we notice throws doubt on the idea that this is the design. If it is, it will be a disgrace and a  10 laughing-stock to the whole city and state. . . . . . . . And it is to be remarked that while every one of the papers is crying up the building of a Washington monument in New York—and crying up the procession too—not a single one, (except, we believe, an evening print,) seems to realize either the necessity of having an appropriate and most majestic structure; or the surpassing difficulty of planning such a structure. The notion  15 seems to be that a monument is to be constructed—that it must cost a great many thousand dollars—and that it must be very big. We sadly fear that the whole thing will be
an entire failure, and that every true artist, and most of our intelligent citizens, will wish the said monument blown up, the moment it is exposed to the public gaze!
    To  commemorate  such  a  character  as  WASHINGTON   we  want,  (we  say,)  no   20 monument but his country, and his countrymen’s hearts! When they forget him, let him be forgotten. It is all well enough to raise proud pieces of showy architecture to your Napoleons, your Walter Scotts, or your Wellingtons—the ‘‘great men’’ of a few ages. But this pure and august being—this MAN without a flaw—asks no pile of brick, stone, and mortar raised! We do not want him brought down to the level of mere  25 common heroes. By the silent shore of the broad Potomac lie WASHINGTON’s mortal ashes;  God  has  his  spirit;  and  his  country  has  his  memory.  Let  his  grave  be undesecrated by  any  sacrilegious  hand—and  let  the  republic  consign  the  task  of preserving his name and fame to no meaner place than its children’s bosoms. Is not
that mausoleum—warmed by vital life-blood which will never forget the sainted hero  30 as long as it flows—better than the cold pomp of marble? Leave such for common men; a higher desert is for WASHINGTON!
    Such are our first feelings in the matter. But yet we might acknowledge the propriety of raising a truly grand and appropriate monument to WASHINGTON. It should be as sublime as the purest and highest genius of the ideal could design it—as  35 perfect and durable as mechanism and art could make it; and have some little approach,
at least, (it could have but little,) to the characteristics of the being whom it so boldly assumes to commemorate.

40


October 20, 1847
[Harper’s Cerographic Map of the United States and Canada]
45
Among the cheapest and best ‘‘counterfeit presentments’’ of which we know, is
‘‘Harpers’ Cerographic Map of the United States and Canada.’’ This map has been con-
structed under the auspices of Mr. Samuel Breese, in cerography—a process by which

342	  


the multiplicity of names and dissecting lines marking the boundaries of counties and towns are rendered more distinct and legible.—The map includes all recent changes, and is to all intents and purposes by far the best yet presented to the public. A good map, clearly and accurately defined, is an essential convenience of our social economy.
5    Were we not so peculiarly a travelling people, the utility of such a chart would scarcely be lessened, for how constantly is an authority like this appealed to in the ordinary transactions of business, as well as in general reading. A reliable and complete map of the country is, on all accounts, an indispensable acquisition; and the Messrs. Harper have now issued one in all essential respects among the best we have yet seen. It is
10    offered at the low price of $2, and $2 50 beautifully glazed, colored and mounted on rollers. Years ago such an elegant map would have been worth ten times the price charged for this.




15
October 25, 1847



Only One Week!


The democratic republicans of this county have now only one week to prepare for
20    the election—that event taking place on Tuesday next, the 2nd day of November. It is
with joy that we state to our more distant readers, (what is well enough known at
home,) that the bitter dissensions which distract the rest of the state, have not yet made
their appearance in this county. And under these circumstances it is, that we call upon
every member of our party, hereabout, to stand by his guns, to fight the good fight, and
25    do his best for victory! We cannot be assured of success, it is true; (although, for our
part, we do not by any means despond of it)—but we can do better—we can deserve it.
It is impossible that every individual of a great party should have his preferences
gratified. And therefore it is that the majority must rule. When, therefore, that majority
has made its selection, it is the duty of every good democrat to obey its behests, so long
30    as the nominees stand on the democratic platform. And no one denies that the state
ticket, nominated at Syracuse, rests upon this platform.—Will the voters of Kings
county show, that, without the least interest in the matter, they are going to let a merely
personal dispute, whose interests are foreign to them, depreciate their votes? We trow
not! Let US be faithful under all circumstances.
35




October 25, 1847

40


[‘‘Tales of the Borders’’]

    Mr. Shannon, (from no. 118 Nassau street, New York,) has sent us no. 1 of his just begun edition of Wilson’s ‘Tales of the Borders, and of Scotland.’ A work this, which, when completed, will be of ample extent, indeed! (it comprises over five hundred original tales.) The numbers are but twelve and a half cents each, and will be issued
45    every ten days. A ‘‘glossary of Scotch words,’’ is to be given; and we notice that the
first and specimen number is tastefully got up.

  	343




October 25, 1847


Idle Daughters


    It is a most painful spectacle in families where the mother is the drudge, to see the daughters elegantly dressed reclining at their ease, with their drawing, their music,	5 their fancy work, and their reading, beguiling themselves of the lapse of hours, days, and weeks, and never dreaming of their responsibilities; but as a necessary conse- quence of neglect of duty growing weary of their useless lives, laying hold of every newly invented stimulant to arouse their drooping energies, and blaming their fate, when they dare not blame their God, for having placed them where they are. Such  10 scenes are becoming too common in our republic.





October 25, 1847

15
Local Intelligence
[The Weather]


Yesterday was a dull, damp, dirty, drizzly, disagreeable day—one that draws the
line very distinctly between foul and fair weather christians.—The latter, we under-  20
stand, devoted themselves very assiduously to their domestic concerns.





October 26, 1847

25
New Music


    MR. C. HOLT’S  PUBLISHING AND MUSICAL ESTABLISHMENT, 156 FULTON ST., N. Y. Our friend, Mr. Holt, we notice, is getting along swimmingly with his  enterprise of an establishment for the sale of the best musical instruments, for the sale of sheet music  30 also, and the publication of original pieces. Among his latest are  the  following:
    ‘Adeline waltz,’ partly from a theme by Balfe. We have heard this played by the bands, and it has all the pleasant, (but not always original) grace of Balfe’s pieces.
‘The halls of Mexico,’ a national ballad, written, arranged, and dedicated to the
American army now serving in Mexico; by ‘Alleghan.’	35
‘Farewell, the ship is ready,’ a ballad composed by Mrs. Sarah Hart, music by
Heidelberg, arranged by Hesser. A very pretty and plaintive bit of music.
‘We left New England’s sunny hills,’ a quartette: words by Alfred Wheler; music
harmonized with piano accompaniment, by Jacob ————, of the Orphean family.
‘The Volunteer’s  war-song,’ the music composed and dedicated to Lieut. W. H.  40
Browne, 1st reg’t. New York volunteers, now in Mexico; by his sister Miss Augusta
Browne. As this lady is favorably known in Brooklyn for her musical accomplish-
ments, this piece will doubtless be sought for by many of our citizens.
The above are some of Mr. Holt’s own publications; and he is bringing out others
from time to time. He keeps a full and varied collection of all the pieces—particularly  45
the beautiful and popular ones—which are to be be heard in the parlors of our

344	  


harmonious ones; (that melody of ‘We forget the gay world,’ for one) . . . . . . . Mr. Holt has also a rich array of fancy articles, perfumery, toilet nick-nacks, and so forth.




5
October 27, 1847



[Literary Notices]


‘The pictorial history of England,’ no. 31, and Mr. James’s ‘Life of Henry IV,’ part third,
10    have just appeared from the press of the Cliff street publishers. Of both these works we
have already spoken in terms of decided commendation.
Through the politeness of Burgess, Stringer & co., 222 Broadway, N. Y., the 5th num-
ber of Chambers’s Miscellany has been sent us. It contains ‘‘Visit to Vesuvius, Pompeii
and  Herculaneum,’’  ‘‘Story  of  Baptiste  Lulli,’’  ‘‘Poems  of  kindness  to  animals,’’
15    ‘‘William Wallace and Robert Bruce,’’ ‘‘Cases of circumstantial evidence,’’ ‘‘Story of
Richard Falconer,’’ and Byron’s narrative of ‘‘the wager.’’—The cases of circumstantial
evidence are particularly recommended to all advocates of capital punishment.
Graham’s Magazine for November contains a readable sketch by F. J. Grund, and
the usual number of embellishments.
20	Ladies’ National, for November, contains a charming mezzotint of ‘‘Christiana and
Mercy in the valley of the shadow of death.’’ This periodical is well conducted—and is
only $2 a year. (Graham, Tribune buildings, New York, is the publisher for this section
of the country—as also for Graham’s magazine, and the Lady’s book.)

25



October 28, 1847


Real Question at Issue!


30		A very few days, and the democratic electors of Kings county will be called upon to put their votes in the ballot boxes—to signify their desire for the success of the democratic republican ticket. On the one hand we behold that ticket, as we have it at the head of our paper; and on the other hand the whig ticket. There are no others—at least no others except one or two attached to the little temporary isms of the day; and
35    these must be thrown out of the account altogether. All minor points, then, subside into comparative insignificance before one: Shall the democratic ticket succeed, or shall the whig ticket succeed? We know that certain persons bring other points to bear; but, we think, all will acknowledge that the question we have italicized above, like Aaron’s rod, swallows up the rest.—Moreover, this is the question, at present. There is a time for all
40    things; and we consider the staving off of the real issue, through some other issue which is not appropriate here, and at this time, to be unnecessary. A man may be friendly enough to, and an avowed advocate of, the ‘‘Wilmot proviso,’’ and still not feel in the least degree that the whole state is to be lost to us for it, nor that this coming election is the proper arena to bring it into discussion. What wilhave the officers to be
45    chosen next week—the lieutenant governor, the comptroller, the state treasurer, &c.— what have they, in their official capacity, to do with the bearings of that proviso? We repeat, that we consider the great question of next Tuesday to be, whether our democratic ticket shall be chosen, or the whig ticket.

  	345


    Can there be a democrat—can there be one in Kings county at all events—who will say that the whig ticket ought to be chosen? If there be, we should like to know that man, that we might let the rest of our party know him too! Such an avowal would stamp any one of our ranks, not only as against us, but worse—for while nominally with us,
he would be doing all he could against us. Differences of opinion may honestly exist in	5 members  of  the  same  party,  on  many  subjects—but,  for  one,  we  recognize  no distinction on the point we allude to above, except the distinction between whig and democrat. A man has, of course, a right to be a whig, if so it pleaseth him; but no man
has a right to call himself a democrat, and either wish for, or do for, the triumph of the whigs. More than that, it is to be remembered that passiveness in voting for the right is almost  10 as bad as activity in voting for the wrong. If there be any democratic reader of this article, who, for any cause, has felt a willingness to let himself be absent from the polls, and help the whigs through not voting for the democrats, we conjure him in the most serious manner to weigh well such a course, before he allows himself to pursue it. It is
by such a course, if pursued by any number of people, that we may expect to lose our ticket. The  15 circumstances of our party, now, are such that every true man must come up to the mark!



20


October 30, 1847


Rouse and Come Forth!


    Yes; rouse and come forth, democrats of Long Island! for your cause is in danger! Whatever be the end, your duty is plain—to work actively, and till the last moment, in  25 behalf of your principles and your candidates. To most of you, this work will merely consist in going to the polls and voting; a simple half hour ’s job, at most—and with many of you a mere ten minutes’ job. But how wide and far extending the conse- quences of such votes! The success of our cause depends upon them—the putting down of the corrupt and anti-American faction of whiggery that opposes us!	30
    If disputes and angry bickerings have pervaded other counties in the state, they have, thank heaven! not yet pervaded ours. And long may they be kept away! We do not recognize the distinctions of ‘‘old hunker ’’ or ‘‘barnburner.’’ We know only the name of democratic republican—a time-honored appellation, which comes to us from
the era of Jefferson, and has been handed through Madison, Jackson, and Van Buren.  35
Let us fight with unanimity under that sacred name and banner—and do our duty to
the full, whatever may be done in the rest of the state!


40



November 1, 1847


Mr. Clay’s ‘‘Far-Seeing Policy’’


    At the late whig pow-wow at the Brooklyn garden, the first resolution passed  45 asserts their enduring admiration of Mr. Clay’s ‘‘far-seeing policy,’’ &c. This, in be- half of a man who predicted unavoidable national ruin as the least of the consequences
of the present tariff, is decidedly good!

346	  




November 2, 1847


The ‘‘Wilmot Proviso’’


Friends of the Wilmot proviso! we earnestly hope that you, of all men, will not
5    abstain from voting the regular ticket, presented at the head of our paper. Is not Mr.
Hungerford a fast friend of the principle of the proviso, as recorded by his votes in
congress last winter? We are surprised that any of the advocates of that principle can,
(if they do,) refuse support to a ticket made up principally of men who are, by their past
action, committed in behalf of the intent and scope of that proviso.
10




November 2, 1847

15


Have You Yet Voted?

    This paragraph may possibly meet the eyes of one who has not yet voted? If so let him not delay another minute. One vote may turn the election.


20


November 2, 1847


[Slavery in the New Territory]


We beg to assure the Advertiser that our opinions on the subject of ‘‘acquisition of
25
territory,’’ &c. and in reference to its perfect freedom from slavery, have not changed
one iota—and will not change.




30
November 2, 1847



[Irish Relief]


We have so often chastised the Brooklyn Advertiser for its impertinent allusions to
35    us, in connection with Irish relief, that there is no need of our doing it again now; even though his falsehoods of yesterday, in relation to the same subject, might warrant such chastisement.



40

November 3, 1847
Some Reflections on the Past, and for the Future

45		In the midst of the gloom of the defeat which has just befallen the democratic ticket, and the remarkable triumph of the whigs, it will not be unprofitable for us, amid all the bitterness, to derive as much of a lesson from the whole affair as we can. And

  	347


that is not a small or an unprofitable lesson either. We hold to the opinion, as a general thing, that when a party gets defeated it has done something to deserve that defeat. As to the main principles of our party, we can never compromise them; we can never, in prosperity or adversity, acknowledge that they are either wrong in themselves, or
deserve the least disfavor from the public. But there may be other points wherein we	5
have not taken the proper means to ensure success.
As a fact without reasonable question, we would mention that our party has not
been, of late, sufficiently bold, open, and radical, in its avowals of sentiment. We never
in the world succeed so well as when we take this bold, unflinching, and radical
ground. The adoption, by such an immense majority, of the new constitution, with its  10
startling changes, almost amounting to a pure democracy shows that the people of
New York will honor almost any draughts upon their radical ideas, and on those once
derided, but now widely worshipped doctrines which the great Jefferson and the
glorious Leggett promulgated. These ideas form the best elements of the democratic
creed, and of the democratic party. If they are offended, their wrath may be slow, but it  15
is sure and terrible. The heartier, then, our party’s avowals of high radical doctrine—
and  the  farther  it  goes  for  freedom—the  more  sternly  it  rebukes  and  puts  aside
conservatism—the stauncher it stands by its faithful ones who have made enemies
because  they  were  too  faithful—the  more  likely  to  succeed.  But  all  conservative
influence is pestilential to our party. It may succeed for a day or a year—but fate itself  20
is not more fixed and immutable than that the more liberal doctrines will gradually
become paramount, and their advocates honored and trusted. It must be so, in the very
nature of things. Every successive ten years has witnessed the most astonishing strides
in political reform in this country. And it is to this progressive spirit that we look for
the ultimate attainment of the perfectest possible form of government—that will be  25
where there is the least possible government, so called—when monopolies shall be
things that were, but are not—when the barbarism of restrictions on trade shall have
passed away—when, (and this ‘‘when’’ we transfer to the present tense,) the plague
spot of slavery, with all its taint to freemen’s principles and prosperity, shall be allowed
to spread no further; and when the good old democratic party—the party of the sainted  30
Jefferson and Jackson—the party, which, with whatever errors of men, has been the
perpetuator of all that is really good and noble and true in our institutions—the time-
honored democratic party shall be existing and flourishing over the grave of this
fleeting whigism, and all its passing brood.
As to the whig triumph, because that faction have elected their officers now, we  35
laugh it to scorn. It is a triumph to them, merely because our democracy have been
distracted and sullen with one another, and would not endorse the ticket that was
presented to them, nor the proceedings of the Syracuse convention. But with this
election, it is not at all unlikely that the distraction will cease. We look for a better state
of feeling. Conservatism, in all its aspects, must leave the field—and the democracy  40
must unite on its boldest and noblest and most radical doctrines. Then is the time for
triumph, indeed! Then is the time for the blood of our young men to swell with ardor,
pride and determination! All hands can then fight with unanimity and energy. They
will not be disheartened at any mishap. But we fear no mishap—because, when once
on the bold high stand of true and unflinchingly avowed democratic principle, we  45
carry with us every sympathy that is honest and manly, and that comes from warm
hearts!

348	  




November 3, 1847


[At the Park Theatre]


It was indeed a divine treat for those who were assembled last evening in the
5    walls of the Park theatre, to hear such singing as that in Lucrezia Borgia—the super-
natural fullness and brilliancy of Mrs. Bishop’s voice, the mellow tenor of Reeves, the
contralto of Madame Macfarren, and the massive bass of Valtellina. Mrs. Bishop is a
remarkable woman, even in the first class of singers—and in the hysterical music of the
last scene of Lucrezia, she did what few, (if there be one other,) women can do, with that
10    most difficult trial work.
We are glad to see Balfe’s opera of the Maid of Artois underlined on the Park bills.
We  observe  also  that  a  tragic  actor  of  note,  Mr.  Charles  Pitt,  is  soon  to  play  an
engagement at that favorite old house.

15



November 4, 1847



Verdict of the Undaunted Democracy

20	of the Empire State in Behalf of the Jeffersonian Ordinance

The intelligent Washington editor of the Journal of Commerce writes as follows:

    Washington, Nov. 2.—We are looking, with intense interest, to the result of the New York state election. The prevalent idea here is that the democrats will elect a majority of senators and
25
assemblymen, but that the whigs will carry their ticket for state officers. Should the hunkers be
defeated, it will do much to establish, not only in New York but in all the non-slave holding
states,  the principles of the Wilmot proviso.

Our late defeat—one of the most sweeping and thorough that ever happened—is
30    undoubtedly owing to the fact that a majority of our convention at Syracuse declined
to endorse the principles of the Jeffersonian proviso—for so it should be called. The
immortal author of the declaration of independence is as much the originator of the
proviso as Columbus was the discoverer of this continent. Vespucius had his office,
and Mr. Wilmot has his. It is an error to say, however, that the Syracuse convention
35    decided against that principle—they only ‘‘let it alone’’; and not a few very plausible
reasons were given for this course, too. But even this, it seems, would not satisfy the
people. We must plant ourselves firmly on the side of freedom, and openly espouse it. The late
election is a terrific warning of the folly of all half-way policy in such matters—of all
compromises that neither receive or reject a great idea to which the people are once
40    fully awakened.
Yes: the people are now fully awakened to this matter of enacting slavery into new
and free ground. It is idle to attempt staving off its discussion. It is the topic. Men must
wear their opinions about it on their faces, and in their tongues—for the great mass of
the democracy say, in tones of thunder, that they will not be trifled with. If a man be
45    sincerely of the belief that the evil of slavery, as a thing to be introduced into the new
ground, should not be met by this Jeffersonian ordinance, or something like it, let him
entertain that opinion, we say with all our heart. Only let him deliberately announce it as
his doctrine, that the people may know where to find him, and that the future may know
what to do with him. He may be as honest as Aristides—only let him be as frank. The

  	349


day is not far distant when politicians will be as eager to prove that they were in this matter on the side of freedom, as ever were men to escape companionship with the cholera or yellow fever!
    And this verdict of New York, on the subject of the proviso, is indeed a most emphatic one. But six short months have passed away, ‘nay, not so much,’ since the	5 democracy of this state, with the serenity and strength of a giant, achieved with calmness a complete triumph in its state ticket, and showed a palpable majority of sixteen or eighteen thousand. Moreover the well known drilling and discipline of our party should be taken into account. Does any man believe that with this immense preponderance, and this almost military party obedience, the great body of the people  10 could have frowned upon us, and drawn aside from us in wrath, through any common reason? Think not so for one moment! The people are not in the habit of wheeling about on their likings so suddenly. They have not learned, either to back and fill, to expand and contract their faith on the India rubber principle; for it is no political fickleness that has made this mighty change. They love our party yet; but it must be  15 true to itself, and to its great duties—true to the memory of the revolutionary fathers who fought for freedom, and not for slavery—true to him, the calm-browed one, and
the  noblest  democrat  of  them  all,  that,  in  his  original  draft  of  the  declaration  of
American independence, inserted as one prime charge against the king and parliament
of Great Britain that they had not taken measures to prevent the extension of slavery in  20
the colonies. Have the ages so rolled backward, and humanity with them, that what we
went to war to stop, seventy years ago, we shall now keep up a war to advance?





November 5, 1847

25

[A Defense of Our Grammar]


    The Brooklyn Star takes us to task because of our ‘‘weakness,’’ and the Advertiser because we don’t write correct grammar. We shall have the frogs finding fault with the  30 voices of canary birds, at this rate.
    Would’st thou behold a newspaper which is the incarnation of nervelessness? the mere dry bones of a paper, with all the marrow long withered up?—Behold that paper in our venerable contemporary of the Evening Star! Conducted for years by one of the
worthiest, best-hearted, most respected, and now of the most venerable, citizens—we  35 mean that veteran editor and excellent man, Col. Spooner—the Star was an interesting weekly budget of news, well digested, and making a readable family companion. But heaven bless us! it is fallen now into the sere and yellow leaf, (for a new era in the press
has long since passed) and it must soon die of inanimation. It is of the olden time— respectable enough perhaps;—but, great powers! for a paper like that to talk of ‘‘weak-  40 ness.’’ Why, one little drop more of ‘‘weakness’’ in its already full cup of that article, and it would have to get somebody’s assistance before it could even lean against the wall and die!
We now come to the other offence, writing bad grammar. This charge is made by
the Brooklyn Advertiser, of all papers in the world! (And we must here advise those  45
of our readers who do not get the Adv. that this charge is by far the least of a long series
of pertinacious impudence which that print has thought proper to engage in of late
toward us.) . . . . . . Some two or three personages, fresh from the regions of English
cockneydom, migrate to America and set themselves up—they forsooth—to edit an

350	  


American newspaper, and send forth their dicta on the great topics which affect our country and its citizens! These fellows, (with such a determined hatred of the eighth letter of the alphabet, that they never, in any event, allow it to pass their lips,) these fellows, sodden in their ignorance, with nothing so characteristic about them as a
5    vanity of triple brass—these low, untaught, and most absurd cockneys—with elon- gated ears, the most diluted sort of mental thinness, and literary vision compared to which moles’ eyes are yawning caverns—these fellows, forsooth, set themselves up, in a large and intelligent American city, as the heads of what should be an arbiter of taste, a discusser of the profound principles of government, and an adviser of republican
10   freemen in the most important relations of life! Are the whig party of such an intellectual city as ours so pushed for advocates as all this? Have they to go through the ‘‘lowest depth’’ of mental and decorous qualities, into a ‘‘lower deep’’ still—and import from English cockneydom the means of managing an American press—that (or what ought to be that,) proud and noble engine? Are the whigs of Brooklyn not
15    ashamed of themselves, for the supremely ridiculous aspect which the ignorance of these men makes identical with their cause? Is it possible that the members of that faction—which claims to have so much of refinement, and of decorous observance— see such a daily martyrdom of our language, and such a determined impalement of good sense, as mark the Advertiser—and do not wish for a better time a coming?
20		But the conducting of a paper here, by these persons who are really unacquainted with American institutions, and of course unfitted to assist in developing them, is also an insult to the rest of the citizens, of all parties. Their paper is not a decent one.—It frequently publishes the most obscene stories and allusions—and, by its infamous prying into domestic affairs, creates distress of a poignant nature in the sacred privacy
25    of families. The whole concern, with the pack of English cockneys at its head, should be hooted from the island! . . . . . . . . . . So much for the character and deservings of this bad and contemptible paper. We have but a word more—and that is on a point which we sha’nt deign to touch again:
What our style and ‘‘grammar ’’ are, the readers of our columns can see for them-
30    selves. As to the style, we simply endeavor to be clearly understood: as to our ‘‘gram-
mar,’’ it is of course perfectly correct, or we shouldn’t presume to write for an intelligent
community. We say so plumply, because we consider the very least requisite of an editor
is not to violate philological truth. We never sacrifice at the shrine of formal construc-
tion, however; and it is well known that a numbskull with a grammar book in his hand,
35    but not the least idea of the general philosophy of the science in his head, can pick
flaws in any idiomatic sentence, and parade his stupidity by calling incorrect what is
frequently the best merit of the composition. We say that any goose, with just as much
real knowledge of grammar as the calf-skin has that binds it, can pick such flaws—in
which fact is the palpable explanation why the Advertiser has charged what it has.
40




November 5, 1847

45


[Wit in the ‘‘Advertiser’’]

    As a specimen of the excruciating wit of the Brooklyn Advertiser, witness the following from yesterday’s number of that paper:
‘‘TO  BE LET.—The upper story of the editor of the Eagle. No foreigner need apply.’’

  	351


    Now the ‘‘upper story’’ of the Advertiser establishment, (i.e. the fourth floor,) being kept for pugilistic encounters, between the editors of that print and persons who come to make complaints, of course is not likely to be sought after. For, according to the system which those fellows of the ring pursue, a newspaper office must have a separate
‘‘story’’ into which, when the editor is called upon to settle any disputed point, he may	5
invite the caller, and the said point be decided by an appeal to fisticuffs. Faugh!




10
November 6, 1847
[The Editors of the Brooklyn ‘‘Advertiser’’]

    The difference between ‘‘a freeman’’ and the editors of the Brooklyn Advertiser is this: the latter, coming from the dregs of English cockneydom, consider that every  15 thing like obedience must mean the lick-spittle obedience of his footmen to a member
of the ’ouse of lawds. Such is the servility of these base and low-minded persons. They know too little of our country, and of the ‘‘sons of liberty,’’ to understand that there is an obedience to party which is perfectly reconcileable to the manliest heart.—How
can they understand such a thing, though?	20





November 8, 1847


A Question Answered	25


    ‘‘Is he a barn-burner, or an old hunker?’’ says the Star, in relation to us. Neither, most curious and venerable friend. We are ambitious of neither of those nick-names. We consider that enough sourness and bad blood have already been caused by persons
in the democratic party ranging themselves under those designations; and are cer-  30
tainly not at all ambitious of either appellation. We are a democratic republican.
As one beneficial result, at least, of the events of last week, we anticipate the
allowing of the absurd nick-names which the Star mentions, to be merged in oblivion.
They  are  meaningless  and  unprofitable  names.  They  do  not  describe  a  general
difference in any way; for persons among each class have their preferences; and the  35
greatest difference seems to be a difference about men. This, we take it, will hereafter
be too weak a difference, (probably it will be altogether obliterated,) to disturb the
future movements of our party.

40




November 8, 1847


[Brooklyn ‘‘Advertiser’’]
45

    The editors of the Advertiser tauntingly tell us they are ‘‘proud of being English- men’’! Well, let them be ‘‘proud’’ of it, if they like; but there is no need of coming upon American ground and throwing such a taunt in all our faces. One thing is certain,
    
352	  


however: England cannot return the compliment to these silly cockneys—she has no earthly reason to be ‘‘proud’’ of them.




5
November 8, 1847



New Publications


‘The Protector; a vindication’; by J. H. Merle D’Aubigne, D.D.;  (Robert Carter, 58
10    Canal street, New York.) A zealous defence, this, of the character of one of the men in
history whose life marks an era in time, in character, and in government—we mean
Oliver Cromwell. The character of Cromwell has been too much covered with odium,
through the one-sided accounts which have come down to us through the sycophantic
writers after the restoration. We hail with pleasure every attempt to clear up the truth,
15    and to present that really noble reformer in his true colors.
Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York, have just published what has long
been desired among our schools in the way of teaching children the first stages of a
very  pretty  accomplishment.—We  allude  to  ‘Coe’s  new  drawing  cards,’  a  series  of
practical lessons containing numerous elementary studies, cottages with rocks, trees,
20    fragments  of  landscape,  picturesque  buildings,  birds,  animals,  rustic  figures,  and
finished landscape; designed to assist the pupil in writing, and to furnish him with
useful studies in drawing. We recommend this cheap means of instruction for our
Brooklyn schools.
‘Water-drops’ is the title of an elegantly printed volume, written by Mrs. Sigourney,
25    and published by Robert Carter, 58 Canal street, New York. It contains forty-eight
sketches, poems, etc., all of them, in some method, illustrating the beauty of temper-
ance, and the horrible results of dissipation. Some of these sketches are of remarkable
interest and pathos. Of the poems, the world is already capable of judging the merit.
‘Lectures to young men;’ by Abiel Abott Livermore, (Boston, James Munroe and
30    company—Brooklyn, for sale by T. D. Smith, 202 Fulton st.) A very serviceable and
excellent little work, whose object is pourtrayed in its title. What Mr. Livermore says of
amusements is particularly happy and correct.
‘Fruit of western life; or Blanche and other poems’; by David Reeve Arnell: (J. C. Riker,
129 Fulton street, New York.) A very prettily printed volume. The ideas of the author,
35    however, seem to be vague. We should think he would, by great attention, succeed
better in prose.
‘The American citizen; his true position, character, and duties’: by Theodore Sedgwick.
This pamphlet, published by Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York, in a discourse
delivered at Union college, in July of the current year. It is a noble discourse!
40	‘The champions of Freedom, or the mysterious chief’; by Samuel Woodworth, (W. H.
Graham, Tribune buildings, New York.) This is a patriotic romance with the following
choice extract from Montgomery as its motto:

‘‘Miracles our champions  wrought,
45	Who  their daring deeds shall tell?
O  how gloriously they fought!
How  triumphantly they  fell!’’

The tale is laid during our war of 1815.

  	353


    Harper ’s Pictorial England continues to be issued rapidly by the great firm in Cliff street. Number 32, we believe, is now out.
    Number 182 of Littell’s Living Age, (Berford & co., 2 Astor house,) has eighteen splendid full articles, besides poetry and scraps.
    Even yet one must laugh, with all the gusto of childhood, over that funny comic	5 pictorial yclept ‘The Adventures of Batchelor Butterfly’ as issued, price 25 cents, by Wilson and co., 10 Spruce street, New York.
    The Parlor Magazine for November (E. E. Miles, 151 Nassau street, New York,) should  have  before  been  noticed  by  us.  This  work  is  now  under  the  editorial management of J. T. Headley. Its articles are choice and varied, and the engravings  10 quite always good. Price $2 per annum, in advance.
    ‘La belle Savoyarde,’ a dashing bit of polka music, by Gustave Blessner, has been published by our friend Holt, from his place 156 Fulton street, New York. Go there, and buy either it or something else.
‘History of the pirates, and of the Buccaneers and Freebooters of America’; (Wilson & co.,  15
15 Spruce street, New York.) A melo-dramatic affair, full of blood, wounds, and horror!
The style is concise, fluent, and unusually good for works of this kind. In this little
book the reader sees evidence enough that ‘‘truth is stranger than fiction,’’ indeed.
‘Benjamin, the Jew of Granada’; by Edward Maturin, (Richards and company, 30
Ann street, New York.) Mr. Maturin is, we believe, considered among good critics as a  20
deserving writer. His stories are generally full of incident.
Hunt’s Merchants’ magazine, for November, has a sterling paper entitled ‘‘State
debts,’’ written by T. P. Kettell. It has four commercial articles, evincing great research
and assiduity in collecting facts—besides the usual ‘‘Mercantile law cases,’’ and the
‘‘Commercial chronicle and review.’’	25
The  Democratic  Review,  for  November,  contains  a  well  executed  picture  of
Nathaniel Greene, postmaster at Boston. This number has some eighteen articles, all of
them well written, and some of remarkable merit.
The Young American’s magazine, (George W. Light, 3 Cornhill, Boston,) number 5,
for November, has a variety of articles by such writers as Greeley, Lowell, and enthu-  30
siasts of that order. It is a well printed periodical.




November 9, 1847	35
Michigan Election—Democratic Victory

    Our friends in Michigan have succeeded nobly in the election that took place there on Tuesday last! They have elected their governor by an unusually large majority,  40 and the largest part of the legislature. It is amusing to see the reasons, that, in certain quarters, are given for our handsome triumph in Michigan. The Tribune, almost with tears in his eyes, admits that Michigan has gone democratic by 10,000 majority, and that the whigs scarcely voted at all. This melancholy fact the Tribune attributes to the
fact that the whig editor was fighting the battles of his country in Mexico. A good  45
fellow! None of your Tom Corwin whigs; and he is doing more real good in defending
the American flag, than in sustaining whig principles. He will not complain of the
defeat in Michigan, having so many victories to boast of in Mexico.

354	  




November 9, 1847


Oratorio of Elijah


We went over to hear the oratorio of Elijah last evening at the Tabernacle, N. Y.
5    Although the music, judged by the rules of the art, is of the highest order, it is too
elaborately  scientific  for  the  popular  ear.  It  is,  besides,  too  heavy  in  its  general
character, and wants the relief of a proper proportion of lightness and melody. There is
scarcely a striking or pleasing air in it. To a mere musician, however, it would afford
study and delight for a year. Some of the choruses are characterized by all the gran-
10    deur and sublimity of the best of Handel’s productions, but these do not compensate
for defects in other respects. Although the audience, which was large, sat out the
performance, it was evident that no great degree of pleasure was derived from it.
As to the performers, Mr. Sheppard, although a good muscian, with a respectable
baritone voice, and with the advantage of feeling always at his ease, is nevertheless
15    not equal to the arduous part of Elijah. Seguin would do it much more justice—why
was he not engaged? Miss Northall appeared to great advantage. She had studied her
part, or rather parts, very faithfully, and in one of the heaviest choruses her clear
soprano voice was heard soaring like a lark’s above the tumultuous din and roar
below. Mad. Pico was, as she always is, excellent, although having really nothing in
20    which to show forth her great powers. The rich pathos of her voice, however, reached
the heart of every one present. The other ladies who assisted in the quartettes acquitted
themselves in a highly creditable manner. Mr. Paige sang with much earnestness and
taste, but was not in as good voice as we have sometimes heard him. The orchestra
was of good quality, but there was too little of it. Mr. Chubb was all that a conductor
25    ought to be, and Mr. Timm did every thing which could be done with a most miserable
organ.





30
November 9, 1847



Religious Works


‘The Happiness of the Blessed, considered as to the particulars of their state, their
35    recognition of each other in that state, and its difference of degrees; to which are added
musings on the church and her services’; by Richard Mant, D.D., lord bishop of
Down and Connor; (Stanford and Swords, 139 Broadway, New York.) The materials of
this work are collected from the holy scriptures, and arranged in the form of sermons.
In the latter part of the volume are several admirable sonnets.
40	Stanford & Swords have also lately published ‘Horæ Liturgeæ; containing, first,
Liturgical discrepancy, its extent, evil and remedy, in two letters to the clergy of his
diocese:  second,  Liturgical  harmony,  its  obligations,  means,  and  security  against
error, whether popish or puritanical, in a charge to candidates for holy orders: by
Richard Mant, D.D., lord bishop of Down and Connor, and Dromore; edited, with
45    notes and additions, to adapt it to use in the American church, by the reverend W. D.
Wilson, M.A.’
‘A  memoir  of  Charlotte  Elizabeth,  embracing  the  period  from  the  close  of  her
personal recollections to her death’; by L. H. J. Tonna; (M. W. Dodd, Brick church

  	355


chapel, opposite city hall, New York.) An entertaining little volume, full of interest to the many friends of the subject of it.





November 10, 1847

5

A Woman Hung


    Utica, Nov. 9, 1 p.m. Over the northern telegraph we get an account of the execu- tion, by hanging, of Mary Runkle, yesterday, Nov. 9th. What a spectacle! A female, even  10 one who had committed the highest crime known to the statute book, deliberately and slowly taken out, under the authority of the law, to punish killing, and the life choked from her gasping throat!
    Our dispatch dated as above, says: ‘‘Mary Runkle was hung at Whitesboro, at 12 o’clock and 20 minutes, for the murder of her husband. Just previous to the falling of  15 the drop the sheriff asked her, ‘‘Mary Runkle have you any word to say to this jury and
to these people?’’ to which she made no answer. After hanging 15 minutes, her body was cut down and delivered to her friends from Montgomery co. She has made a confession to Dr. Smith and under sheriff Eames.
20




November 11, 1847


[Brooklyn ‘‘Advertiser’’]
25

    The Brooklyn Advertiser thinks our office is in no need of ‘‘cakes.’’ It certainly is not,  and  will  not  be—nor  of  greens  either—as  long  as  these  ridiculous  cockneys publish their paper in the neighborhood.

30



November 11, 1847


Works of Dr. Chalmers


    It will be agreeable intelligence to many that an American re-publication of the  35 posthumous writings of Dr. Chalmers is about to appear, from the press of Messrs. Harper & brothers, simultaneously with the original edition, from duplicate stereotype plates.  These  productions  will  comprise  the  matured  fruit  of  the  academic  and theological labors of this distinguished scholar and divine, during the greater part of
his arduous and valuable life.	40





November 12, 1847


[Willow Branch]	45


An urchin remarked that the principal branch of education, in his school was the
willow branch the teacher having used up nearly a whole tree.

356	  




November 15, 1847


[‘‘Consular Cities of China’’]


The Harpers have published the first half of Smith’s ‘‘Consular cities of China,’’ a
5    long expected work on the Chinese empire, including notes of the missionary stations,
commercial progress, domestic habits and customs of the natives, &c.—Judging from
the preference and consideration shown to the present work over others of recent date
by the North British Review, in an elaborate article of recent date, there can be little
doubt of the general acceptableness of the volume both among the commercial, as well
10    as the literary and religious community. Mr. Smith having resided some years in China,
under the patronage of the British missionary station, possessed peculiar advantages
for becoming acquainted with the subject treated of in his book; and we therefore
commend it to the attention of readers generally.

15


November 16, 1847
The President, the War, and the Whigs
20
    In the new and fresh code of whig principles, (for such Mr. Clay’s Lexington resolutions must be now considered,) our ancient enemy, the federalist faction, attempts to strike a blow at the president, and, indeed, the whole government, on the Mexican war. We propose, for a moment, to consider whether there be the least justice
25    in this malignant attack on Mr. Polk. . . . . . The circumstances of the first order from the war department, directing Gen. Taylor to proceed to the Rio Grande and take his station opposite Matamoras, and the fulfilment thereof, have become matters of history. Of the wisdom of that order, and its necessity at the time, there have been different opinions; but, we believe, there has been and is but one opinion among
30    candid men as to the purest motives on the part of the executive in issuing the order.
What it has resulted in, could not be then foreseen; but we believe that the discreetest
military officers coincided in the soundness of the move, at the time. Even General
Taylor  himself  recommended  it.  But  we  do  not  wish  to  discuss  that  point  now.
Congress forthwith sanctioned the order we allude to; and never, to this day, (at least
35    as far as we remember,) has one single member of congress, except Corwin of the
senate, dared to impeach the motives of the president, or to get up in his place and take
the side against his countrymen, and our glorious armies.
Since that famous order, we are not willing to acknowledge a single point of the
executive’s course toward Mexico, that even admits of discussion. We approve it all,
40    fully, totally, and thoroughly—every step, word, act, line, and letter! And the American
people will approve of that course too. It is such as becomes our power as a nation. At
every fresh victory, (and how numerous and continued they have been!) the president
has sought peace.—No sooner is a town conquered than we, the victors, plead for
peace. Even with the capital of the enemy at the feet of our little army, our triumphant
45    general pauses and puts aside, what he could have taken by stretching forth his hand,
a proud renown which Napoleon might feel honored in winning—and asks for an
armistice, and peace. This denied, he takes that proud renown, the possession of the
capital, and again expresses our government’s willingness for peace. Thus at every

  	357


step, and with every advantage on our side, we have not only been willing to settle the matter amicably, but have striven to do so.
    We say, therefore, that if there lives a man who is not satisfied with these perpetual strivings to settle the dispute—and whose bosom does not thrill with the glorious deeds, as great as the annals of old Greece and Rome can show, of our American	5 soldiery in Mexico—that man’s heart is no true American heart. And yet such men appear to be numerous among the whigs. In Mr. Clay’s resolutions, the war is de- nounced, and the American people, represented in their government, are denounced
as bloodthirsty, cruel, greedy, and loving war for itself merely, without any definite object.	10
    Since it has come to this question—if we are to go into a contest before the people on the conduct of the administration in respect to the war, the whigs denouncing the government, and espousing the ‘‘no territory’’ side, we, for an humble member of the democratic party, meet them with joy and gladness. Our conscience, our patriotism,
our appreciation of the popular feeling, and all that can inspirit a man to fight with  15 heart and soul, all join in opposition to this new developement of whiggery. We are glad the old federalists are ‘‘out’’ at last. We shall now have something tangible to battle with.

20



November 17, 1847


Penury of a Play-Writer


    The recent death in New York city of Mr. Banister, the most prolific dramatist of  25 our country, has thrown a gloom over the circle in which he moved, and the cir- cumstances of which, we are sorry to say, cast a severe reflection upon the class of his profession who have been greatly benefited by his labors. He was permitted, as we
are credibly informed, to want for the necessaries of life while in health, and for consolation and comforts of support while in the sickness which terminated in death.  30
Mr. Banister was certainly worthy of humane treatment, at least in his last days, from the  theatrical profession. When he died he was not, we should think, much above thirty-six years of age, and he had over fifty acting plays upon the stage of his own composition, and about eighty-five including those dramatised by him from books. Probably nearly one-half of all the farces now played from time to time on our boards  35 were original by him, many of which are also performed in England. Several scenic pieces of his have brought large profits to managers with but small or no realization to
the poor author. The thought of these things creates sadness. We wish however to remind the humane that he has left a wife and several small children in indigent circumstances who may be rendered comfortable by their aid.	40





November 17, 1847


Slavery in Delaware	45


    We cut the following extract from the Independent Delawarian. It indicates—says the Trenton News, a decided movement, irrespective of party, in Delaware, to remodel
    
358	  


the state constitution and abolish slavery.—Since the country has passed the feverish excitement produced by intemperate abolition appeals, the sober second thought indicates very plainly both the interests and the duty of such states as are prepared for a change on this vital subject. Delaware and Kentucky, Maryland and Virginia, are
5    approaching the crisis when every long cherished prejudice will give way, and the incubus which hangs over their prosperity be removed.

THE    BALL IN  MOTION.—It will be seen by the above that the friends of the constitutional reform, in this city, are beginning to move; and we trust that every  man who has the welfare and prosperity of community at heart, will see the necessity giving this great and important measure
10    his countenance and support, and, therefore, endeavor to attend at the city hall, on Saturday evening. The object is to form a reform association, irrespective of party, and a committee will then be appointed to draft a constitution and by-laws, which will be submitted to a subsequent meeting—when those who are in favor of  constitutional reform, can have an opportunity of registering their names, and becoming members of the same. We doubt not that there will be a
15    large gathering of the people, and that when the convention ball is once set in motion, it will receive such an impetus as to cause it to roll over the whole state,  crushing the mushroom aristocracy, that may endeavor to stop it; and sweep away every impediment in its passage. The meeting will be addressed by several eminent speakers, of both political parties, among whom, we are pleased to be enabled to  announce at least one, whose voice has often in years past,
20    resounded in the old time, honored hall, in favor of equal rights of man.







November 20, 1847
25


Rally Round the Government


    From all appearances—from the tone of Mr. Clay’s developments at Lexington— and from declared policy favored by the whig presses—there is to be a fierce attack made, from this time forth, upon the president of the United States in particular and
30    our government in general. The principal point of this attack is to be ostensibly the Mexican war; but in reality it is well understood that there are other causes of the ill- feeling of the whigs.—The ‘‘protectionists’’ among them haven’t got over their bitterness at the passage of the new tariff bill. Others haven’t altogether given up their spite at the independent treasury. Mr. Clay and his friends hate the president with a
35    deadly hatred, in the remembrance of the contest of ’44.
And it becomes the democratic party—and all patriots, even if they belong to the
other party—at this time to rally round the government. The democrats, in particular,
have  a  bounden  duty  to  perform;  our  duty,  it  would  be,  even  under  a  whig
administration, with similar circumstances; and how much more our duty under an
40    executive that we placed in power, and that has so nobly sustained his own honor, the nation’s, and that of democracy too! We repeat it, to rally to the government’s support,
now, is what must be expected of every true patriot. To such a rally we are encouraged by every consideration of the past, the present, and the future.—The past encourages us because the administration, as far as its action was concerned, has been true to us, and
45    deserves the highest praise. In its management of our affairs, of the revenue, the
finances, etc., it has been signally successful. The present invokes every American to

  	359


stand by the government, unless we would see our national name disgraced. And the future is full of reasons of the same nature.
    We think too highly of the democracy of Long Island to suppose that they will be backward at such a crisis. We have, moreover, the satisfaction of knowing that this district will be represented in congress by a gentleman who will warmly second all	5 proper and patriotic efforts of the kind we allude to—and who will nobly take his stand in that phalanx which shall plant itself on true American ground,—defending
the president from the assaults of those who malign him, and the honor of the people from jeopardy.
10




November 20, 1847



Another Son of Brooklyn!	15

Death, in Mexico, of Francis Van Dyke, Jr.

    We are under the painful necessity, this morning, of announcing the death, in Mexico, of another gallant soldier, a native and late resident in Brooklyn—FRANCIS VAN  DYKE, jr., son of Mr. Van Dyke the mustard manufacturer in Johnson street, an old  20 and estimable citizen of Brooklyn. The young man, (his age was 23 years,) while on business in some part of Pennsylvania, joined the first regiment of volunteers from that state, and proceeded forthwith to the seat of war. We did not know him personally; but have the best authority for speaking in high terms of his character, his worth and manners as a member of society. His courage and intrepidity as a soldier were well  25 known and admired among his associates in the army.
    Another son of Brooklyn is thus numbered among the slain in Mexico! With the sincerest feelings of our heart we would condole with his estimable family, whom we have long known. The proper observances will doubtless be taken to pay due honor to
his remains and to his gallant memory.	30





November 20, 1847


[Book Notice]	35


    With a New York contemporary, we may say that we too have not completed the reading of the first part of the Rev. George Smith’s ‘‘Narrative of an exploratory visit to the consular cities of China and to the islands of Hong Kong and Chusan’’; (Harpers, pub.) but what we have read has proved instructive as well as entertaining.—Some valuable  40 works have been written on China within the past few years, more important, perhaps, than this to the political economist and the merchant. But we have met with none that
has given us so full an insight, without apparent effort, into the individual character of the Chinese—that has made us so familiar with the thinkings and habits of an ordinary intelligent Chinaman. There are in its pages a willingness to acknowledge and respect  45 whatever is estimable, and a pleasant vein of narrative, which make the Chinese city and  its population almost as familiar to us as some portions of our own land. It is

360	  


moreover a seasonable book, now that the attention of religious men is so earnestly directed to China.




5
November 22, 1847



‘‘Annexation of Mexico’’


Divers of the whig presses and leaders are getting unnecessarily excited, on a
10    certain subject, with about as much reason as Don Quixote had to get excited against
the windmill. The subject we allude to is the ‘‘annexation of Mexico’’ to the United
States. Now we set out with the supposition that few things are more certain than that
an immense territory, in the northwestern and perhaps northern portions of Mexico
will be ‘‘annexed’’ to the United States as a result of this war. The people of the United
15    States favor the plan, and we believe it would be right. Those regions—immense
enough to form a score of states,—are comparatively unpeopled, and would be well
occupied  and  developed  by  a  hardy  race  of  American  republicans.  The  Mexican
population having been always sparse there, will almost immediately become incorpo-
rated in the new and plentiful elements; and we shall have communities fit to be our
20    equals. We need hardly say we hope this will be the result—for we are sure of it. Many
a child is already born who will see numerous representatives in congress from such
states.
The idea of ‘‘annexing’’ the whole of Mexico to the United States, however, is not a
sensible idea, and we do not think any body seriously entertains it. Those portions of
25    Mexico, more to the south, which are more thickly peopled, we would be much the
worse for having. The inhabitants could not assimilate to ours; and the institutions
could not work with ours. In process of time it is not improbable but that gradual
intercourse, and a peaceful communion, might create such a state of things as to lead to
the ‘‘annexation’’ of those countries too—but it would be many years at the nearest.
30	We said we did not think there was any need of the whigs getting excited, and
abusing folks, and kicking up a great fuss generally. Because, fume as much as they
will, it is as fixed as fate that a very large territory will be added—and quite as sure, we
think, that the whole of Mexico will not be added—to those free and independent
United States. Even now we gladly welcome the prospective states! That there will be
35    some want of smoothness, some contention perhaps, in the organization of the new
states, is every way probable at the beginning. But (and we say it with reverence,) our
faith in the final triumph of christianity is not more clear and full than our faith in the
harmonious progress and increase of the United States of North America—and their
added brethren, as the latter join us from time to time. To us, nothing more proves the
40    shortsightedness of a man than his speculating on the rupture of this union as a thing
to  be  taken  into  account.  Nor  is  it  with  any  blind  faith  that  we  feel  our  perfect
confidence in the perpetuity of the union. We feel the same confidence in it that we
might feel in the strength of any thing not only established in power but loved by all
those within its influence, and who are altogether benefitted by it—that has sur-
45    mounted greater obstacles than any that can befall it again, and whose failure would
plainly overwhelm the seceders within their own weakness, taking their very life-
blood from them!

  	361




November 22, 1847


New Publications


    ‘‘Oregon missions, and travels over the Rocky mountains, in 1845–46; by Father P. J. DeSmet, of the society of Jesus,’’ is lately published by Edward Dunigan, 151 Fulton	5 street, New York. This well printed volume would be, to us, full of interest from the simple fact alone that it relates to the customs and peculiarities of distant tribes of the
red men. But when we find this interesting subject treated of in simple and choice language, and the incidents themselves altogether original—with many traditions and singular legends—we are indeed pleased with the work. The descriptions of scenery,  10 too, are fine.—The whole is illustrated with spirited lithographic prints, pourtraying scenes and characters witnessed by the author, and taken from life. We consider these lithographs to be among the best, for small ones, that we have ever seen; and cordially recommend the book as one deserving a wide sale. (To be had of Nevin, 158 Fulton st.)
‘‘The Eclectic commentary on the Holy Bible,’’ published in London by the Religious  15
Tract society, continues to be issued from the New York agency, (Shannon’s, 118 Nassau
street.) This commentary is from the works of Drs. Henry and Scott, besides a hundred
other writers; and is considered by theological critics as presenting more general
features of merit, and fewer objectionable points, than any other. Each number is
embellished with a good wood engraving, of scenes alluded to in holy writ. The num-  20
bers are 25 cents each.
‘‘Locke Amsden, or the Schoolmaster,’’ (W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, New York,)
is a work whose similar we wish we could announce every month to our readers. It is
equal in every respect in its scope to works that are much vaunted, being written by
foreign authors. The hero is a ‘‘Country schoolmaster,’’ and the plot and incidents of  25
the story are such as to make it every way acceptable to persons engaged in the noble
business of education. We hope the author will favor the public with frequent works
from his pen; if they have anything like the merit of this, they cannot but be welcomed,
and deserve welcome. Mr. Mussey, of Boston, is the publisher.
Mr. Carter, 58 Canal street, New York, has lately published a neat edition of  30
‘‘Solitude sweetened; or meditations on various religious subjects, written in distant
parts of the world,’’ by James Meikle. A sterling old devotional work, this! It was
written 90 years ago, (1757–60,) and yet its intrinsic merit has made it hold possession
of the public favor, with increase rather than diminution.
The same house has also issued ‘‘the Martyrs and Covenanters of Scotland.’’ We  35
always considered the Scottish covenanters much in the light of our New England
Puritans;—both had some of the manliest virtues, and an independence that neither
kings nor imperious priests could bow; but both had many glaring faults, too. They
were too conceited in their own opinions. . . . . . The book named at the head of our
paragraph is full of painful interest.	40
A charming little volume entitled ‘‘the Vast Army’’ written by Rev. Edward Monro,
has  been  issued  by  Stanford  &  Swords,  139  Broadway,  New  York.  The  style  is
beautifully smooth and clear, and the moral of the whole sketch is of the truest and
most universally acceptable kind. It is fit for children; and will be welcomed by the
most fastidious of mature tastes, too.	45
‘‘Family and private prayers,’’ by the Rev. William Berrian, rector of Trinity church,
New York, comes also from the press of Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway. This

362	  


volume is for domestic use. Much of it is taken from the common prayer book, and much drawn from the offices for special occasions in the church of England liturgy. The demand for the work may be understood when we state that the present is the fourth edition.
5		Nos. 15 and 16 of ‘‘Payne’s Universum, or Pictorial World,’’ a London small quarto, (R. T. Shannon, 118 Nassau street, New York, agent,) contain the usual complement of fine steel engravings, from fresh designs, or from paintings of the first masters. The
‘‘Gipsy anglers’’ in no. 16 is an exquisite picture. There are four prints in each number, besides the reading.
10




November 22, 1847

15


Bad Lights

    The streets of Brooklyn still continue to be darkened by the bad lamps, bad oil, and, apparently, bad management.




20
November 24, 1847



Schoolmasters and Printers


Goldsmith says, ‘‘Of all professions, I do not know a more useful or honorable one
25    than that of a schoolmaster; at the same time, I do not see any more generally despised,
or whose talents are less rewarded.’’ ‘‘Our doctor ’’ forgot to mention printers as being
in the same category. The reason why these two classes are so much neglected is
obvious. Education and refinement are not necessary to mere animal life, and to live
the sensuous reign of a day is the highest ambition of too many. We wot a printer who
30    worked hard and manfully to get his bread by toil, but failed. He went to brewing beer,
and made a fortune. He used to say every body had stomachs, whereas very few were
blessed with heads.




35
November 24, 1847



To-morrow Is Set Apart


According to the long custom of this part of the republic—a custom now becoming
40    general in the south and west, too—as a day of ‘‘thanksgiving.’’ Next to that gratitude
which we owe the Almighty Father for life itself and the blessed liberty of conscience,
is a joyous feeling for our political liberty. Surely no people that ever lived have more
cause than we, for thankfulness to God! for a devout, cheerful, perpetual satisfaction
with all those outward influences of government and social organization which are so
45    potent to open the avenues to, or retard, human happiness! It is true, meanwhile, that
this happiness must proceed from the individual’s self—when it is to be positively
enjoyed; but the old world is a horrid illustration of the fact that those outward

  	363


influences,  when  improperly  organised,  can  effectually  mar  the  prosperity  of  the masses, at all events.
    Just look in the old world, at Ireland and Scotland, and France, and large sections of Germany! Among the masses, what we working-people call daily necessaries of life, (good  bread, good meat, good dwellings, and good clothing,) are really unknown,	5 except by the seeing of them in the possession of the few who are better off. In the Italian states the people—some of them—are struggling at this moment with far from
a surety of success, for a vague taste of the liberties which we now enjoy—the little bud, whereof we now have the full fruit. In still more dreary sections of the earth, and larger ones, the people—and all are our brethren, by the great bond of the same  10 nature—scores of millions live in gloomy ignorance, and slavish servility, and foolish superstition. In the immense circuit of China, Tartary, Russia, and the oriental regions, what a sickening state there is of religion, education, and political rights! O, our lot indeed is cast in pleasant places.
Such reflections as these may be trite enough; but they are necessary, at times.  15
They seem to us especially useful at present. While the roast turkeys and the pies and
puddings, ‘‘suffer ’’ more than ‘‘some,’’ we hope it will not be considered likely to mar
the joviality of one’s thoughts, to bring in a dash even at such solid considerations for
thanksgiving, as we have above advanced.
20




November 24, 1847


How Contracts Are Given Out
under the Present City Government	25


    When the present municipal government of Brooklyn came into power, they forth- with commenced a sweeping business of rewarding political favorites and ‘‘workies,’’ to the utter defiance of justice, decorum, and economy.—They have pursued this
course ever since. As an instance in point: not many days since, a contract to glaze the  30 city lamps, etc. was advertised for; and the inference was, of course, that it would be given to the lowest bidder, who could offer responsible sureties. This ought to have been done—but was not done. A gentleman in that line of business, whose offer was considerably lower than the one which was accepted, was refused, and passed over in silence, while another offer, very considerably higher, was fixed upon! The tax-payers  35 of Brooklyn would like to be informed of the why and wherefore of this. Are the taxes
so very light that we must have an additional weight put on them, when there is no earthly need of it!

40


November 24, 1847
Thomson’s ‘‘Seasons.’’ Harper’s Illustrated Edition
45
    Among nature’s truest worshippers and most graphic painters has for a hundred years been considered the poet Thomson. His ‘‘Seasons’’ is not surpassed by any book
    
364	  


with which we are acquainted, in its happy limning of the scenes it professes to represent; in its faculty of bringing before the reader the clear sight of everything in its scope. In Harper ’s new illustrated edition of this poem, the pictorial designers have caught the inspiration of the poet himself, and well wrought upon the hints and
5    suggestions he made. Some of the designs are equal in spirit and boldness of touch to paintings which the world has long thought well of. There are nearly eighty of these fine embellishments; they fit in at the sides, tops, and corners of the pages, in a novel and most appropriate manner, while the text runs on side by side with them. We are informed in the preface that the illustrations are printed from copper blocks, formed by
10    the electrotype process. This method has been found to be attended with several advantages in printing, besides the means which it affords of preserving the original blocks, and of renewing the electrotypes, thus forming a perpetual security against inferior impressions of the designs.
But the excellence of this edition lies in another merit, too. It is from the edition of
15    1748, revised by the poet himself just before his death. In this respect of correctness it is
said to present superior claims to any in print.
[Extract from beginning of ‘‘Winter ’’ and from publisher ’s advertisement omitted—
88 ll.]

20



November 24, 1847


Startling Novelty!


25	The Advertiser states that ‘‘a gentleman is now employed’’ in its editorial department.





November 26, 1847
30


Troubles in the Whig Camp


    Since Mr. Clay’s Lexington speech and resolutions, there has been great trouble brewing in the whig camp. A portion of that beautiful faction are anxious to play the same game with the ‘‘sage’’ this time that they played with him in 1840—to throw him
35    overboard and put in nomination a military chieftain. The whigs of the more ultra kind, however, are fain to rally round Mr. Clay—the real embodiment, joking aside, of their principles—with an enthusiasm which does them credit. That Lexington speech, we say, has drawn the difference to a head; and there is an open effort made to substitute Gen. Scott in the place of Mr. Clay. It is thought that Scott will carry the
40    military  ardor  of  the  people  with  him,  and  thus  become  president  like  the  hero Jackson. Now Scott is a brilliant general and a distinguished martinet; but he is a very different man from what the hero of New Orleans was. Besides, the popular love for military prowess is ‘‘spoken for ’’ before-hand, in behalf of General Taylor. Scott will be the man for the real federalist whigs—the old blue-lights of the party. But that is not
45    the popular side, by a great deal.
The singular spectacle is thus presented of two rival candidates, in the party, who
denounce and oppose this war—one open and courageous in his opposition to the

  	365


war—the other the commanding major-general himself! Of course we are all watching this very pretty quarrel with huge amusement.



5

November 26, 1847
What the Government Paper Says about Peace with Mexico

    The following article from the Washington Union expresses a confidence in an  10 early peace with Mexico, wherein we cannot coincide. The ‘‘fighting in masses’’ may indeed be over, there; but we fear that many months must elapse before definitive terms of peace, signed and sealed, give a warrant for withdrawing the United States armies from our southern neighbor. Mexico will have to yield large and valuable portions of her territory, and submit explicitly to the Rio Grande, at least, as the  15 dividing line between herself and Texas. These will be bitter things for the pride of that foolish and feeble nation; and we can hardly, as yet, look for their fruition with any thing like a reasonable confidence.
[Washington Union article omitted—35 1⁄2     ll.]
20




November 26, 1847


Hurry Up That Ordinance!
25

    There is an ordinance which ought to be enforced, in reference to putting lights at night where obstructions, etc., have been made in the public streets, in the course of building, and so on. In Joralemon street last evening, a gentleman driving a vehicle was brought up all standing by one of the dangerous posts that are driven there—and only by a mere chance escaped severe injury to himself. As it was his horse and wagon  30 were damaged. . . . . . In Prince street, there have been several hair breadth escapes, of people and horses, on the pile of dirt that surrounds the extinct volcano just above Myrtle avenue—which completely obstructs the street, and on which at night there is
no lamp, as there ought to be. As to any help from the street lamps, that is not to be thought of for one moment?	35





November 26, 1847


Bother without Improvement	40


    O,  the  wisdom  of  somebody,  who  is  entrusted  with  power  by  the  municipal daddies of Brooklyn! O, that wisdom, we say again. For we have just been gazing at the pavement repairs in the lower part of Fulton street—the effect whereof is to turn
the water, in time of rains, from its impudent current down the middle of the street,  45 and make it overflow the walks, and run down the cellars everywhere! Some three or four hundred dollars, at least, will be neatly expended in this brilliant operation; which

366	  


is likely to prove a perpetual nuisance to all who pass down Fulton street to the ferry, or upward from the same. O, the wisdom! &c.




5

November 26, 1847




The Broadway Theatre, New York


10		We have been told that the Broadway theatre clears its owners some two hundred and fifty or three hundred dollars every night! This is making money, indeed. In respect to comfort, as a house, we believe the Broadway is acknowledged by all to surpass any theatre, either here or abroad; and with respect to its architectural beauty inside, it is also complete—with one exception. We allude to the tawdry figures, (some
15    kind of ‘‘cross’’ knights, we are told,) which stand on one foot off against the front of the second tier, and are bound round the shoulders in colored stuff, and hold out the chandeliers! They hugely mar the prettiness of the rest of the house, and we advise their being forthwith taken out and buried decently. In the matters of good and roomy seats, and every place affording a convenient view of the stage, the Broadway is a
20    masterpiece and deserves special commendation, as no other theatre that we ever visited has similar advantages. . . . . . . . . . . . A succession of pleasant performances seems to be the aim of the management of this house; and they succeed well in it. For instance, the little comedy of ‘‘A trip to Kissengen’’ is capitally enacted throughout. Mrs. Winstanley, Mrs. Watts, and Messrs. Dawson and Hadaway, performing their
25    parts to admiration. Miss Selbin, Miss Wallack and Mr. Vandenhoof, are also among the favorite performers. . . . . The Monplaisirs have gained great approbation, at the Broadway, in ballet pieces. Mrs. M. ‘‘does’’ some of the most remarkable steps and evolutions ever seen upon our stage; and some of her tableaux, with her husband are indescribably graceful and voluptuous. One can hardly see these two young dancers,
30    without much admiration; nor will that be unmixed with wonder that they can stand for so long a time, apparently without the least weariness, such amazing draughts upon their physical powers. Mrs. M. in particular, we never see toward the last without astonishment at her unflagging ease and smoothness.

35



November 26, 1847


The World of Books


40		Harper’s Illustrated Catalogue—In looking over the long list of works, as mentioned in this catalogue, published and for sale by what we think we may call the greatest publishing house in the world, (for they certainly print more copies, and a greater variety than any other, either American or foreign,)—we mean Harper and Brothers, of New York—an intelligent man can hardly fail to have excited in his mind feelings of a far
45    more profound character than such as are merely founded on an ample index of names, and a multiplicity of title-pages. What a world there is, after all, in books! O how those little rustling leaves—those dumb letters—enwrap a vast creation in their scope! In them are put, for safe keeping, the genius and discoveries of man, the trials

  	367


and experiments of the learned, and all the mysteries of science. Beautiful thoughts of poets, and passionate writhings of the o’erstrung brain, and eloquence such as moves the massy heart of nations, are embalmed there, and thus kept fresh for ages. The lives of the good and great too, incentives to courage and virtue, reside aneath their pages,
and fire many a heart, in many a land, with holy emulation. What would be the most	5 precious treasure of all, Sacred Writ itself, except for the bookish art? What would become of this ‘‘intelligence of the age,’’ that we hear so much about? In books are the best guardians of religion and of liberty, the staunchest exposers of wrong, and the readiest inducements to right. We care not much what kind of books—we mean in what  department—they  are,  so  long  as  confessedly  not  open  to  the  charge  of  10 intentional immorality. We say that all books do good, and have their office. And there
is not a nobler sphere of occupation than that which ushers them into the world. Then may heaven bless the manufacturers of books! say we. Not, of course, that we mean any less regard to the writers of books; but it really is really often forgotten that there
are printers and publishers too.	15
In the catalogue mentioned above, which has excited these thoughts, there are too
many works, by far, for us to count the names of. There are works on agriculture,
domestic  economy,  theological  literature,  history,  biography,  voyages,  travels,  art,
science,  natural  history,  physiology,  the  drama,  medicine  and  surgery;—there  are
novels  without  number,  poetry  in  ample  supply,  essays,  classical  compilations,  20
dictionaries, miscellaneous juvenile works, school books, and many things else beside.
A single copy of each of the Harpers’ publications would make a mighty library;
heterogeneous,  perhaps,  but  still  affording  sufficient  food  to  any  and  all  of  the
profession, or to any and all departments of literature! It is a remarkable fact, too, and
speaks deeply for the excellence of the works this firm has issued from the beginning,  25
that quite every book, even those originally issued years ago, is in steady annual
demand still all the time—which demand the Harpers are able to supply because they
stereotype every thing they set up. Of course for some works the demand is much less
than others—but that there is a demand for each one, and that they occasionally have
to issue a new edition of it, speaks, we say, much for the justness of their judgment as  30
publishers.
There is one point to which we would here devote a particular paragraph: it is on
the subject of publishing the works of American writers. The Harpers have been much
blamed,  and  taken  to  task  quite  angrily,  indeed  because,  as  is  asserted  by  the
complainants, they will not bring out more of the preparations of native literary  35
persons. We have heard this charge advanced pertinaciously and often. With a view to
eking out something on the truth or error of it, we glance our eye over the closely
printed index commencing on page 155 of this catalogue, and count up nearly three
hundred different original works, (of one, two, or more volumes each) by American writers,
issued by this firm. (There are doubtless more, perhaps a large number, elsewhere  40
mentioned—and some names we don’t put down as American, because we are not
sure, though we think they are.) Is not this a pretty effectual answer to the complaint?
The preponderance of publications, it is true, still seems in favor of the reprints from
foreign sources; but that is because the Harpers publish so many works every month—
not that they publish our own writers less, but that they print the others more.	45
Our limits forbid us to expatiate farther, or we would like to make particular
mention of the illustrated works issued from the Cliff street house—the magnificent
Pictorial England, the age enduring Illuminated Shakspeare, and the well-known Illus-

368	  


trated Bible. These are indeed noble enterprises, vast in their outlay, and worthy of the capital and means of so great an establishment.
    We  have, in  conclusion,  to  say  that  to  reading  persons—to  all  persons—this catalogue will be not only useful, but a sort of history of literature in itself. Nearly
5    every book has the price attached, which is very convenient. The catalogue can be obtained gratuitously on application to the publishers; and we recommend our Long Island book dealers to supply themselves with a quantity for circulation among their customers and the public.

10



November 29, 1847


[Literary Notice]


15	The  Columbian  Magazine  for  December:  New  York:  Ormsby  and  Hackett, 116
Fulton street.—The embellishments of this number are indifferent. There are two line
engravings, ‘‘The Omen,’’ illustrating a passage in one of Halleck’s poems, and ‘‘The
Hawking party at rest,’’ accompanying which is a chapter on falconry, by Robert A.
West, one of the editors. There are also a fashion plate, and two pages of music. Among
20    the contributors we find the names of H. Hastings Weld, James Jameson, a new writer
of humorous poetic legends, Mrs. Sigourney, Mrs. McDonald, Joseph H. Butler, Mrs.
Osgood, Mrs. Ellet, Mrs. C. H. Butler, John Inman, Mrs. Sleeper and others.



25

November 30, 1847
A Place for the Musical Folk of Brooklyn

30		The store of Mr. Charles Holt (of this city,) at 156 Fulton street, N. York, near Broadway, offers peculiar advantages to our musical citizens. We personally know that Mr. H. will treat them fairly, will not recommend an article to be what it is not, and will do every thing possible to accommodate a customer. Besides fine pianos and other musical instruments, he has for sale a full assortment of sheet music, etc: and many
35    choice fancy articles. Among the pieces lately published by Mr. H. are the following: Jenny Lind’s Song of Fatherland—a soft and sweet melody, full of the beauty which
is said to characterise everything sung by that famous songstress.
The  Mariner,  a  favorite  song  also  of  the  ‘‘Swedish  nightingale.’’  We  are  no
connoisseur, but this song too, seems to embody some of the best elements of music.
40	The Diamond Glee-book, a collection of seven glees: the Woods, by Mendelssohn—
Maid of Langollen—While the moon shines bright—Orpheus with his lute—On the
sea—War song—and Happy hearts. These are neatly stitched in a cover, and sold for
37 1⁄2     cents—both good and cheap.
Broadway Polka, composed by Wm. H. Bruhns: said by a musical friend to ‘taste
45    well’ when played on the piano forte.
University quickstep, by L. Cleim; quite a dashing piece.
These pieces are all published by Mr. Holt,—and besides, he has everything that

  	369


the other music houses issue, or have issued. He is a Brooklyn man, and should be patronized by Brooklyn folk.





December 1, 1847

5

[Literary Notices]


‘‘Proper  Lessons  for  the  Sundays  and  Holydays,’’  (Stanford  &  Swords,  pub., 138
Broadway, New York,) is a work containing the lessons, etc. for all the days mentioned,  10
throughout the year. It is printed in handsome style, well bound, and must of course be
highly serviceable to those connected with the episcopal denomination. The use of
such works as this, properly considered, is by no means confined to offices of formal
devotion. The Lessons could well be made a book for family companionship—the
eternal and unequalled wisdom which is upon their pages, is fit for all conditions of  15
men, and appropriate at all times, and under all circumstances. (For sale at Wilder ’s
book-stores, in Brooklyn.)
‘‘Anecdotes for girls,’’ is the mate of another book ‘‘for boys,’’ issued by Gould,
Kendall & Lincoln, 59 Washington street, Boston. It contains the right sort of reading to
seize and hold the attention of youth—short stories, and anecdotes, embodying their  20
morals not in dry advice, but in the spirit of the incident related. We like these little
works well, and hope our parent readers will procure them for their young people.
(For sale by Colby, Nassau street, New York, and the booksellers, generally.)
Part 58 of Virtue’s Devotional Family Bible, (London issue—New York agency, 26
John st.,) contains a very well executed line engraving of ‘the finding of Moses.’ This  25
work is printed in the handsomest manner—and is steadily approaching completion.
‘‘Jack ashore,’’ by E. Howard; a new and cheap edition, price 25 cents, published by
Burgess & Stringer, 222 Broadway, N. Y. One of the nautical novels, somewhat in
Marryat’s style.
Chambers’s Miscellany, no. 7, published by Gould, Kendall & Lincoln, Boston,  30
contains  a  well  selected  variety  similar  to  that  of  the  previous  numbers.  A  right
valuable publication. (Burgess & Stringer, N. Y. agents.)
‘‘The Convict,’’ by G. P. R. James, has been issued by the Harpers in cheap form, (25
cents.) It can be had at the periodical and literary depots.
No. 185 of Littell’s Living Age, has over a dozen choice articles selected from the  35
foreign reviews and journals of high standing—besides a hash of lighter reading.
(Berford & co., Astor house, New York.)
Some other works have been received, and will be noticed at our earliest leisure.

40



December 2, 1847


[Licking School Children]


The latest invention is a sort of mill turned by a crank, by which three school  45
children can be licked at a time. In this way, much labor is saved to the schoolteacher in
the discharge of his arduous duties.

370	  



December 2, 1847
Mr. Gallatin’s Plan of Settling Our Dispute with Mexico

5		The morning papers are criticising at some length a pamphlet lately written and published by the venerable Albert Gallatin, on the subject of our difficulties with Mexico, and what he thinks the proper way of settling them. According to the aged writer, we United Statesers must give in everything—acknowledge, in amount, that the Nueces is the southern boundary of Texas—recall our troops from Mexico—and,
10   in every material point, act as the vanquished and weaker party instead of the victorious and powerful one. For our own part, we do not hesitate at once to disagree from every position taken by Mr. Gallatin, as regards the proper way of ending the war—and the measures to be taken in regard to territory, indemnity, and so forth.
The past is the past. As to the origin of the war, and the way it came to be a war,
15    and all that, argument and discussion would be both useless and unprofitable. Our
troops have fought hard-contested battles, and have gained signal triumphs over vastly
superior forces—and paid dearly, too, for some of their triumphs. They do occupy the
enemy’s capital, as rulers there. Large and populous as the nation of Mexico is, it
cannot make headway against them at all. Is it for us, then, after paying the priceless
20    value of so many noble lives, and of so much bloody toil, to lose the fruits of victory? Is
it for us to yield every thing? We say no; there is no need of it, on any consideration.
For our own part, and we believe we speak the popular feeling, we believe that
very large accessions of fertile territory will be made to our beloved republic, as a
sequence of this war. We have already had all the bad: let us now follow with the good.
25    If we do not, we shall be fools indeed. Not that we join in what seems to us the
unreasonable  cry  of  ‘‘annexing  the  whole  of  Mexico’’—for  we  believe  that  such  a
superlative doctrine is likely to defeat all, because it grasps too much, and may thus get
none. But we could hope that from this time forth, the government and the democratic
party might take open and avowed ground to this effect: that the yielding us of an
30    ample extent of Mexican northwestern territory should be an indispensable condition
of peace.
We have lofty views of the scope and destiny of our American republic. It is for
the interest of mankind that its power and territory should be extended—the farther
the better. We claim those lands, thus, by a law superior to parchments and dry
35    diplomatic rules. What has Mexico done with them, or for them? Those lands would in
due time become independent states, too, like the rest; for we have no vassal provinces,
like the monarchies of old Europe. We do not take them to be our inferiors in any
respect, but to be our equals. And future generations, thousands and millions of men,
appear in the dim light of coming years, to endorse our claim.
40	As to all the peculiar views in which Mr. Clay’s Lexington manifesto, Mr. Gallatin’s
pamphlet, and the New York Tribune generally, are so profuse, about ‘‘justice’’ and
‘‘peace’’  and  ‘‘forbearance,’’  and  ‘‘magnanimity,’’  they  are  entirely  foreign  to  the
question, as it stands. Made while a war was merely in prospect, and its propriety dis-
cussed, we are free to say that we might coincide with them. But in the connection, as
45    applicable to the present case, they are insufferably mawkish and false.—There is such
a thing as ‘‘justice’’ to our own side, too—to our country’s side of the argument—to

  	371


our soldiery in Mexico—and to the coming myriads of American freemen. We are dis- gusted to see any of our countrymen making a long tirade, in which not one single point of favor is shown to the actions of the United States, the popular will and the govern- ment thereof. It is a little worse than unnatural; it is against common sense. For the old
proverb says there are ‘‘always two sides’’ etc.; but according to Mr. Clay, Mr. Gallatin,	5
and the Tribune, there is in this thing only one side, and that altogether against us.
We approach the close of these remarks with a question of the Tribune’s own
asking: ‘‘Are the people, [and government] of the United States, absolute beasts?’’ If
half of what Mr. Clay and the Tribune says, about the country’s action in the Mexican
disputes,  is  true,  they  are.  If  they  are  not,  can  we  be  charged  with  grossness  in  10
intimating that the character in the interrogatory would, at least, be more appropriate
on their maligners?
In conclusion, we are sorry to utter a word which has the least appearance of
disrespect toward such a man as Mr. Gallatin. We are fain to think that age has dulled
the clearness of his mind, and bereft his former patriotism of its fair proportions; and  15
yet we are astonished that it is so! But having come out in the way he has, our duty to
our country, and the convictions of our conscience, would not hold us guiltless in
saying less than we have said.

20



December 3, 1847


Shall We Have That Monument?


    It is unnecessary, in giving the detailed proceedings which follow, for us again to  25 go over the ground of the arguments in favor of the proposed monument to the American prisoners who died, during ‘‘the days that tried men’s souls,’’ in the British hulks, at the Wallabout. We publish the proceedings, in all their length and breadth, because we not only feel warmly in favor of the monument, but think that a united and energetic effort on the part of the citizens to whom it is left, will now secure it. The  30 resolutions themselves express the reasons and facts, connected with the movement, quite fully: we call particular attention to them.
    The propriety of putting the monument on Fort Greene is, also, to our mind, indisputable. And in this is furnished another point in behalf of reserving the grounds there for a public park. It is contemplated, when the construction of the park is defi-  35 nitely settled, as to be, to petition the common council for a grant of some land in it; and in this, by the city, by private subscription, etc., a vault is to be built, and the ashes
of the prisoners there quietly inurned. There is already a thousand dollars in the state treasury, with the accumulated interest of many years, appropriated to this object—on condition of the raising of another thousand dollars by Brooklyn. This vault, and the  40 interment, being arranged by us, it is considered that there will be no difficulty in getting congress to make a due appropriation in behalf of a monument to the dead patriots. It is no sectional claim that is presented to congress in the matter; for, as the resolutions truly express it, the prisoners were from all parts of the union, and their graves should be cherished as national graves.	45
[Proceedings omitted—36 ll.]

372	  




December 4, 1847


Late Publications


The POETICAL  WORKS OF  OLIVER  GOLDSMITH, M.B., illustrated by wood engravings from
5	designs by members of the Etching club; with a biographical memoir, and notes on the
poems; edited by Bolton Corney. New York, Harper & Brothers publishers, 82 Cliff street.
All that the finest paper, the clearest type, and the most careful printing, have been
able to achieve, combine to render this superb volume attractive.—Well set off are
these points, by the illustrations, which are, in themselves, a pleasing study for a good
10    hour—and one which the amateur artist may find both gratifying and profitable. . . . . . 
Uniform in size, style, binding, etc., with Thomson’s Seasons, (noticed by us the other
day,) this, perhaps, does not present the spirited variety of that fine volume; but we
think it has several bits of better engraving—which ‘‘better ’’ we did not, when looking
over the Seasons, think it at all easy to compass. As specimens of the art of printing, and
15    of fine designs and engraving, we think this series which the Harpers are bringing out,
(making Thomson, Goldsmith, and Milton—the latter forthcoming next week—all
illustrated,) is of the very highest order. Of course, as to the intrinsic merit of the
writings  themselves,  the  world  has  long  decided  that  point. . . . . .  The  lovers  of
Goldsmith will not find fault with us, for copying the following stanzas, which, by a
20    mere change of a couple of names, would be so appropriate to many of our lately fallen
heroes in the southwest. They were written in 1759, on the death of Gen. Wolfe, at the
taking of Quebec:

Amid  the clamor of exulting joys,
Which  triumph forces from the patriot  heart,
25	Grief  dares to mingle her soul-piercing voice,
And  quells the raptures which from pleasures  start.
O,  Wolfe! to thee a streaming flood of woe, Sighing, we pray, and think e’en conquest  dear;
Quebec  in vain shall teach our breast to glow,
30	While  thy sad fate extorts the heart-wrung tear!
Alive,  the foe thy dreadful vigor fled
And  saw thee fall with joy-pronouncing  eyes;
Yet shall they know thou conquerest, though  dead,
Since  from thy tomb a thousand heroes  rise.

35    Well did we say these lines are appropriate to our own dead on the same continent, (though a distant part from that,) where the heroic Englishman fell! Nor, heroic as he was, are dozens of our officers in the southwest a whit less worthy of the like pathetic praise. . . . . . The volume just noticed is peculiarly fitted for a gift book, of a more permanent worth than the annuals.
40
BIOGRAPHIA   LITERARIA; Biographical sketches of my literary life and opinions, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge; completed and published by his widow. 2 vols. New York; Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway.
To a person of literary taste, the first pleasure of reading any thing written by
45    Coleridge will be, that it is written in such choice and unaffected style—next that the
author evidently lays open his whole heart with the artlessness of a child—and next
that there is no commonplace or cant. These are exceedingly rare merits, at the present

  	373


day. . . . . . . . . . . .  ‘‘Biographia  Literaria’’  will  reach  the  deepest  thoughts  of  the
‘choice few’ among readers who can appreciate the fascinating subtleties of Coleridge;
and  both  volumes  will  be  entertaining  to  the  general  reader,  from  their  fund  of
anecdote, and the good humor that will rise to the surface even of such a poetical
nature as that child of songs. In some respects we think this man stands above all	5
poets: he was passionate without being morbid—he was like Adam in Paradise, and
almost as free from artificiality. . . . . . . . . The limits of a newspaper criticism do not
allow us to go into a disquisition on the merits of the ‘‘Biographia’’ which would
render it justice; but we make an extract, showing Coleridge’s experience in the way of
‘‘starting a paper,’’ that darling hobby of young literary men: [Extract omitted—117 ll.]  10
Alas! how many editors and publishers can tally this with equally bad, or worse,
experience! . . . . . . . . . The ‘‘Biographia’’ presents a well printed appearance in two
goodly volumes.

OLD   WINE IN  NEW BOTTLES; by Augustus A. Gardner, M.D.; C. S. Francis, 252 Broadway,  15
N. Y.
Most persons who ‘‘read the papers,’’ will remember the diffusion, through many
of them, of certain letters from abroad, which appeared from time to time in the
Newark Daily Advertiser.—These letters have now been collected, revised, and made
into a volume, which the firm mentioned above have published, under the title of ‘‘Old  20
wine in new bottles, or, spare hours of a student in Paris.’’ The author certainly makes a
very entertaining book. Paris, it is true, is no new ground for a traveller; and there have
been hundreds of descriptions of its wonders, its fine works of art, and its gaieties. Yet
there is no lack of interest in these pages.—They have, indeed, the flavor of ‘‘old
wine,’’ and racy at that. The book is fairly printed, and makes 332 pages duodecimo.  25




December 4, 1847
30
Shutting of Stores at 8 O’Clock P.M.—Junior  Clerks

    We are glad to notice, in the dry goods stores of this city, an announcement that said stores will be closed during the coming winter, at 8 o’clock in the evening, instead
of 9, or half past 9, as has been the case; (Saturday night is an exception—on that  35 evening there is no limit.) . . . . . . . . . It would be a good custom, were nearly all the retail stores where clerks are employed, to shut up in time to give those clerks, and owners too, the use of their evenings. Or, if most desirable, the shutting up early might
be done on all except two nights of the week—say those of Tuesdays and Saturdays.
If this were a general arrangement, it would soon coincide entirely with the public  40
convenience, and people would become used to it.
Clerks in stores have many disadvantages, that perhaps more than counterbalance
the absence, in their employment, of what we usually call hard labor. They cannot be
said to be learning a trade; their wages are generally very small; they are compelled to
be less independent than a mechanic; and their time is almost invariably required from  45
7 o’clock in the morning, till 9 or half-past 9 at night. The junior clerks, or boys in retail
stores, (and, indeed, in almost all working places,) have a particularly ‘‘hard time.’’ The
employer is too apt to treat them as menials, and compel too much labor for too little

374	  


money. They are expected to be at their ‘‘place’’ first in the morning and last at night. They get the hardest fare, the smallest pay, and the fewest favors. Most of those indulgences and kindnesses so appropriate to youth, are denied them. It is irksome, at any time, for young people to be confined from morning till night in a sedentary way.
5    And this irksomeness, in the case of store boys, is added to by the ‘‘boss,’’ (to say nothing of surliness, which can be shown boys without restraint) seldom feeling any anxiety for or interest in them, more than to get the most of their labor and time.
    It is sometimes suggested that by letting the clerks of stores have their evenings, they may spend them badly. Similar logic would suggest that by letting a man have the
10    use of his legs he might run off the dock, and get drowned. We cannot approve of the idea of confining young persons in this way, for fear they may come to injury.





15    December 6, 1847


New Music


    Jenny Lind’s songs.—Mr. Charles Holt, 156 Fulton street, New York, has lately published, among others, the following popular pieces of music:
20	‘‘The Rataplan,’’ from the opera of ‘‘La Figlia del Reggimentio,’’ as sung by Jenny
Lind.
Also the Swedish melodist’s song in the same opera commencing ‘‘Search through
the wide world.’’
‘‘The Dream’’ as sung by Lind. Miss Bremer is the authoress of the words. It is
25    remarkably sweet and harmonious.
‘‘I’d like to live in yonder star,’’ a ballad composed by John Underner, of Albany.
Quite an agreeable song.
These pieces though well printed are sold at low prices.

30



December 7, 1847


Mr. Clay’s Prospects


35		As matters stand, at present, Mr. Clay has a pretty good ‘‘look’’ for the whig nomination to the presidency. It is not to be denied that a large portion of his party, in the contests already fought for him, have acquired something of that pride for, and devotion toward, his person, that the French armies had toward Napoleon—though the latter was victorious, while the Ashlander has been the other thing.
40




December 7, 1847

45


[Troy Nail Works]

    The Troy nail works have cleared this year 45 per cent upon their capital. Is this the ruin that was to come from the new tariff?
    
  	375




December 7, 1847


Late Publications


The ODD   FELLOWS’ OFFERING, for 1848; edited by James L. Ridgely and Paschal Donaldson: New York, published by Edward Walker, 114 Fulton Street.	5
    Some twelve plates, many of them on subjects connected with the spirit and action of  odd-fellowship,  embellish  this  annual.  In  the  text,  we  notice  that  a  cheerful benevolence runs like a sort of nature through almost every paragraph. Mr. Walker, the publisher, has brought out the book in handsome style, as regards the print, binding and so on; and sundry agreeable writers furnish the tales, poems, and moral pieces. We  10 extract the following by a writer in Brooklyn:
[Poem ‘‘Twilight Dreams,’’ by Rev. T. B. Thayer, omitted—44 ll.]

THE    PHILOSOPHY  OF   LIFE,  AND  PHILOSOPHY  OF   LANGUAGE; in a course of lectures; by
Frederick Von Schlegel. Translated from the German by Rev. A. J. W. Morrison. Harper &  15
Brothers, publishers, 82 Cliff street, N. Y.
Disquisitions on the most solemn subjects that can engage human thought form
the first sections of this book! In the opening they treat of the soul, first of all as forming
the centre of consciousness, and, secondly, of its co-operation with mind or spirit in
science. Next they treat of the laws of divine wisdom and providence, as discernable in  20
outward nature, in the world of thought, and in the history of mankind. The last seven
lectures contain an attempt to trace the development of man’s mind or spirit, both
within  himself  and  in  science  and  public  life.  Tracing  its  gradual  expansion,  as
unfolded either by its legitimate pursuit of a restoration to original excellence, or by a
struggle with the opposing spirit of the times, they follow the human race up to the  25
closing term of perfection.





December 8, 1847

30

Vocal Music in the Brooklyn Schools


    The teaching of vocal music is not only commendable, but, in the opinion of the best teachers, absolutely necessary in public schools. It would be well if this branch  35 were more thoroughly fostered and encouraged. Music should be taught in the schools
as a science. Why not give an exhibition of the scholars in music?





December 8, 1847

40

A Foot and Boot Article


Perhaps, reader, you have never thought it possible that there could be poetry in
feet and boots—or, at any rate, in the matter-of-fact trade of shoemaking. It is the  45
easiest thing in the world, however, to be mistaken.—Our fellow-citizen, now, Mr.
Mundell, of 116 Fulton street, had some specimens of foot-casing in the late fair of the

376	  


American institute, in New York, (from which he took three premiums, for boots, gaiters, and ladies’ slippers,) that evinced not only more ability, but more artistic talent, than the construction of many verses we have seen in our day—and that people called fair verses too.
5		To mention not more than the names of a few who have honored the shoemakers’ handicraft—such as Roger Sherman, Daniel Sheffey, (a distinguished Virginia lawyer, member of congress, and colleague of John Randolph)—Gideon Lee, (formerly mayor of New York,)—Noah Worcester, (a New England divine, of sterling talent, who was much admired by the celebrated Dr. Channing,)—in the United States; then there are
10    in the old world, many others—as Robert and Nathaniel Bloomfield, William Gifford, (the leviathan of the London Quarterly Review,)—George Fox, (the founder and first preacher of the sect of Friends,)—Holcroft, (the writer of so many good novels and plays)—and various other deceased persons of note. These men were actual workies at shoemaking or mending, during a greater or less portion of their lives; no mere
15    nominal mechanics, but men of lapstones and awls and wax-ends. We say that it is well to recall their names; for they all did good in the world by their talents.
    But the poetry of the feet, and of that part of the dress which enwraps them: well, we are ready to go into that, too. What says old Chaucer—that venerable father of English song?

20	‘‘Of shoon and boot’es new and  faire, Look at least thou have a  pair,
And  that they fit so fetously
That  these rude men may utterly
Marvel,  sith they sit so plain,
25	How  they come on and off again.’’

So you see that even royal poets think it good that folks should take care to have good ‘‘shoon’’—or, as they would express it, in these days, boots—or, as they would still improve upon it, after seeing such work as took the premium at the fair, Mundell’s boots. . . . . . . Shakspere thus describes Diomede, (in Troilus and Cressida,) walking:

30	‘‘Tis he; I know the manner of his  gait; He rises on the toe; that spirit  of his
In  aspiration lifts him from the  earth!’’

Now Diomede must have had an easy and well fitting pair of boots, of course. Who can walk, or even sit with any pleasant grace, when annoyed by a tight or a clumsy
35    foot-garment?
The great bard of nature, in another place, makes use of this expression:

‘‘Nay; her foot  speaks!’’

    Can any thing be more graphic? Some poets talk of the ‘‘silent language of the eye’’—others of the hand—but, after all, is there not a facility and pertinence in the
40    foot that is sometimes superior to the others? What can be more forcible than  the operation of kicking a bad man out of the room?—How sharply meaning is Logan’s

‘‘I would not turn on my heel, to save my  life!’’

But we have, to conclude, a little conceit, in the style of the writers of that time,

  	377


written by an anonymous contemporary of Butler, which equals any thing of its sort in freshness and prettiness. He is talking of his modest and beautiful mistress:

How  her feet tempt; how soft and light she  treads! Fearing to wake the flowers from their  beds;
Yet from their sweet green pillows every where	5
They  gaze and start about to see my fair.
Look  how that pretty modest columbine
Hangs  down its head to view those feet of thine!
See  the fond motion of the strawberrie
Creeping on earth to go along with thee;	10
The  lovely violet makes after too,
Unwilling  yet, my dear, to part with you;
The  knot grass and the daisies catch thy toes
To kiss my fair one’s feet before she goes.

Can any thing, we say, be better turned, and more graceful than that? . . . . . . .  15
Well, what all those pretty extracts are in words, Mundell will do for you in work.






December 8, 1847

20
[‘‘The Opal’’]


THE   OPAL, a pure gift for the holydays; 1848; edited by Mrs. Sarah J. Hale. New York: J. C.
Riker, 129 Fulton street.
A very well-bound and rich-looking annual!—(We speak of the appearance first,  25
because that is first, in the annuals.) The Opal appears to set out with the intention of
preserving a rigidly moral tone, in picture and in text, that it may be indeed ‘‘a pure
gift.’’ As far as we have examined, this determination has been adhered to. Nine very
well designed and artistically executed engravings are in the book. All these are
original—and we must say that they show much superior claims to the usual run of  30
annual and magazine pictures—wherewith the world has been nauseated, in a long
variety,  (as  an  Irishman  might  say,)  of  commonplace.  Miss  H.  F.  Gould—always
acceptable—has  a  contribution;  also  Willis,  and  Mrs.  Ellet.  Longfellow  gives  the
following gem:

BY     THE  SEA-SIDE	35

by  H. W.  Longfellow

The  twilight is sad and  cloudy, The wind blows  wild  and free,
And  like the wings of sea  birds
Flash  the white caps of the sea.	40

But  in the fisherman’s  cottage
There shines a ruddier light,
And  a little face at the  window
Peers  out into the night.

378	  


Close,  close it is pressed to the  window, As if those childish eyes
Were looking into the darkness
To see some shape arise.
5	And  a woman’s waving shadow
Is  passing to and fro—
Now, rising to the ceiling,
Now  bowing and bending low.
What  tale does the roaring ocean
10	And  the night wind, bleak and wild,
As  it beats at the crazy casement
Tell to the little child?
And  why do the roaring ocean
And  the night wind wild and bleak,
15	As  they beat at the heart of the mother
Drive  the color from her cheek?



20    December 9, 1847
Cannot Brooklyn Too Say Something for Italy?

    The late meeting in New York, to express sympathy for the Pope and for Italian liberty,  meets  with  the  enthusiastic  responses  of  all  persons  and  parties!  Every
25    newspaper, far and near, has had something to say in approbation of the meeting and its object. Would it not be well for Brooklyn, too, to add her mite of sympathy for that noble old man who wears the tri-crown? Would it not be well for us to have our meeting, as the New Yorkers have had theirs? There are very many catholics in this city; and both protestants and catholics, however they may differ in religious tenets,
30    agree in their admiration for the present pope, and his principal movements. In such a meeting—if it should be thought proper to have one—there is no doubt citizens of all beliefs and parties would cordially join.




35

December 9, 1847




Free Evening Schools, in Brooklyn


40		The resolutions which follow, were presented in the board of education, day before yesterday, by Mr. Hunter. As a means of bringing the subject of free evening schools before the proper officers, with a view to favorable action, we cordially second them. An immense number of youth, at that critical age when the boy is changing to be a  man,  are  now  nightly  thrown  into  idle  associations  and  bad  habits;  and  it  is
45    reasonably supposed that such schools would be the means of turning many to a much better way of spending those evenings:
[Rest of article omitted—20 ll.]

  	379




December 9, 1847


Late Music from Atwill’s


 New and favorite pieces of music continue to be issued from the old established store  of Mr. J. F. Atwill, 201 Broadway, New York; the following among others:	5
    ‘‘Beauties of the Opera,’’ in numbers. No. 6 contains ‘‘Ah no, you’ll not forget me!’’ from the Giselle—Jenny Lind’s ‘‘Dream’’—‘‘Love’s Ranz de Vache’’—and some sparkling bits from Meyerbeer ’s opera of ‘‘the Camp of Silesia.’’
‘‘La Zingarilla,’’ as danced by Mons. and Madame Monplaisir, at the Broadway theatre.
The Flower Dance of the Viennoise children.	10
Abby Hutchinson’s song of ‘‘the Lament of the blind orphan girl.’’
Atwill  has  also  published,  in  handsome  binding  ‘‘the  Jenny  Lind  annual,’’  a
charming collection of late and fashionable music, by the famous Jenny.

15



December 9, 1847


[Literary Notices]


Richard Green Parker ’s ‘‘Outlines of General History,’’ (Harpers, pub.) is a new  20
work for schools, on the plan of question and answer. In the glance we have given over
it, we notice that it possesses the advantage of having brought its information down to
the ‘‘latest moment.’’ And this is no small advantage, either; for books of information
for the young often fail in producing a clear effect from the antiquated nature of the
information in them. These ‘‘Outlines’’ are well printed and bound, and may be had at  25
the bookstores.
‘‘The Boy’s Winter Book,’’ forms the seasonable third of ‘‘the Boy’s own library,’’
written by Thomas Miller, and issued, with neat illustrations, by the Harpers. A good
deal of very pleasant and seasonable information, as well as amusement, is contained
in this series.	30
We ought before to have noticed the Christian Parlor magazine, for December. This
is a sterling periodical, and deserves patronage.
Graham, at the Tribune buildings, New York, has published, in cheap form, a
melo-dramatic novel from the French of Frederick Soulie. It has the taking title of ‘‘the
Heads of the Headless.’’	35
Graham has also published ‘‘the Adventures of a Strolling Player,’’ from the French
of the same writer. This work is full of amusement. The price is twenty-five cents.





December 10, 1847

40

What the Free-Traders Want


    Our venerable friend of the Star makes out a very pretty case against us, in his yes- terday’s paper—with the exception that it has one sad mistake.—It takes our figures of  45
Monday, which expressly stated that they referred only to the port of New York—the great importing, not exporting, place—and erroneously assumes that they embody the

380	  


trade of the whole United States. We do not think this was done intentionally; but it is a sad blunder nevertheless, and completely swamps our venerable neighbor for this time. The exports from New Orleans and from Philadelphia, and the cotton exports of the south, have yet to be counted, friend Star. Moreover, friend Star, put on your
5  spectacles and read carefully what you see in the Eagle; and when you want to condemn, don’t dismiss the subject with a flippant word. . . . . . . Another thing: the Star now acknowledges that revenue from duties is really paid by the people to themselves. A good admission to begin with; if tariffites would only keep this in mind, they would not get into fogs as often as they do.—The Star’s way of stating it is this:
10
‘‘So far as respects the immense ‘prosperity’ of the government being able to draw  four
millions of additional revenue from our own people, we can only compare it to the ability which
our  corporation possess of at any time drawing a good round revenue from the  people of
Brooklyn, by selling licenses to retailers of spiritous  liquors!’’

15		Now, for a tariffite, is not this a giving in of the high duty principle, with a vengeance? It puts the laying of duties, to ‘‘protect’’ American manufacturers on the same platform with selling licenses to taverns! We invite the reader to carry out the thread of this notion for himself.
In our Monday’s article we should have stated, (and we give the Star the benefit of
20    it here,) that the excessive amount of imports in ’47, (nearly a hundred millions,) is an
apparent excess only. For a very large proportion of the goods were actually brought
hither previous to Dec. 1st ’46, and were not entered at the custom house, until they
could get the benefit of the new tariff. We do not think, either, that the country is
prosperous in proportion to the goods brought to it from abroad. Quite the other
25    way—we  think  the  importations  should  be  kept  to  as  low  a  point  as  possible,
consistently with the freedom and best interests of commerce. But we can’t have trade
without imports.
And  we  say  that  the  freer  you  leave  the  whole  matter  from  any  hampering
restrictions, the more boundlessly will the energies and workmanship of the American
30    people be expanded, and the greater will be the balance in their favor. Why, bless your
soul, friend Star! while your school are fretting and fuming for ‘‘protection’’ to the
supply of goods and products to home consumption, we free traders are striking out in
the mighty game of the world for our market, and distant kingdoms for our commer-
cial tributaries! What is there to say us nay in this? We have, in this vast republic, every
35    variety of climate, soil, and production. We have the greatest staple in the world nearly
altogether in our own hands. We have enterprise and physical power, and steam
power, beyond all other nations.—Cut us loose from the antiquated bandages of the
tariff system—place us on the broad sea of freedom in trade, with the unchained wind
and full sails,—and we will show the world such a spectacle of solid commercial
40    grandeur, not merely beyond all English greatness, but towering to such a stupendous
height as men have never before conceived or had any idea of!





45    December 11,  1847


Earliest and Best


The Union magazine, edited by Mrs. Kirkland, and published by Mr. Post, 140
Nassau street, New York, has its number for January 1848 already in the field. It has

  	381


three engravings: that of ‘‘the Homeless’’ is the best picture—and ‘‘the gallant exploit of Lieut. Hamilton,’’ is not bad. Mr. Bryant, Mrs. Child, Mrs. Kirkland, Miss Gould, Mrs. Ellet, N. P. Willis and Mrs. Sigourney, have contributions—and good ones.

5



December 11, 1847


[‘‘Young People’s Mirror’’]


    The ‘‘Young People’s Mirror,’’ a quarto monthly magazine, for the remarkably low  10 price of fifty cents a year, has been commenced by Mr. E. Walker, 114 Fulton street, New York: Mr. B. J. Lossing, who is both a writer and pictorial artist, edits the work. The first number is a very good one, and we confidently recommend our friends to subscribe
for the work, for youth.
15




December 13, 1847


English Meanness
20

    The English writers, while, of course, not without good and noble traits, show, almost without exception, a most infamous and spiteful meanness toward this country, in the matter of the Mexican war. We do not mean that we blame them because they condemn the origin of the war—the continuation of it, too, if they please; for it is to be
expected that they should take such an unfavorable view of those points. But they do  25 not stop with this. They vitiate the facts that relate to the battles and our victories. Nearly all of them keep back the truth; and instead of advising their readers of any of those feats of arms and high emprise, that the history of this war is full of, they turn off every one of such deeds and of our victories as a mere chance thing!
Perhaps it galls them: it certainly arouses their malignance. Yet why should it?  30
Why should they not record, with pride, the great courage and dauntless bravery, and
unequalled perseverance, of their descendants?





December 15, 1847

35

The Same Subject Continued


All through the morning, the same heavy and thick fog has continued to envelope
this section of the world.—Ding–g–g! ding–g–g! ding–g–g! go the ferry bells to give  40
boats notice where they must come in.





December 15, 1847

45
[An Emerson Paragraph]


    In one of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s inimitable lectures, occurs the following striking paragraph, which every heart will acknowledge to be as truthful as it is beautiful:
    
382	  


    ‘‘When the act of reflection takes place in the mind, when we look at ourselves in the light of thought, we discover that our life is embosomed in beauty. Behind us,  as we go, all things assume pleasing forms, as clouds do afar off. Not only things familiar and stale, but even the tragic and terrible, are lures of memory. The river  bank, the weed at the water side, the old
5    house, the foolish person, however neglected at the passing, have a grace in the past. Even the corpse that has lain in the chambers, has added a solemn ornament to the house.—The soul will not know either deformity or pain.’’



10
December 17, 1847
Broad Farce in Literature—‘‘The John-Donkey’’

In advance, we have been supplied by the polite conductors with the initiative
15    number of (for Jan. 1, ’48,) ‘‘the John-Donkey,’’ a new quarto illustrated journal of
humor and drive-away-careism. It is rich exceedingly! The number sent us has more
broad  wit—the  real  coarse,  but  deep,  true  stuff,  like  Shakspere’s  (without  any
indelicacy, how ever,) own natural comic humor—than any eight pages published,
that we have seen. If ‘‘John-Donkey’’ keeps it up in this style, he will, in his own sphere,
20    be better than any foreign humorous journal; because the points of his wit are mostly
on this side of the Atlantic—and he don’t attempt (which was the great fault of the late
‘‘Yankee Doodle,’’) to swim in the wake of the London and Paris comic papers. We
welcome the new print, and would encourage it to persist, unflaggingly, in efforts
equal to this first number—because, if it does, it will surely establish itself, and ‘‘pay.’’
25




December 18, 1847

30


Prolific Legislation

Nothing is more true, in political sayings, than the little-understood maxim that
‘‘the world is governed too much.’’ It is a great pity that legislators do not oftener put it
in  practice.  Sensible  people  are  confused  and  confounded  by  the  multiplicity  of
enactments,  relating  to  every  department  in  life  and  business,  and  more  or  less
35    affecting every action; while even lawyers who are supposed to delight in confusion,
can hardly keep pace with so many laws. . . . . . The legislature that adjourned on the
15th inst. has passed, since the first of January, ’47, the pretty little number of 496 laws!
Only think of that! Why a man could hardly get the meaning of them through him in
one year! And in a week or so more another legislature comes to the capitol, and begins
40    the work of lawing with that sort of renewed ardor which the poor fox, swimming
across the stream, protested against as likely to actuate a second swarm of flies.





45    December 18, 1847


Late Publications


Mrs. Gilman’s ‘‘Sybil, or new Oracle from the Poets,’’ published by Wiley & Putnam,
161 Broadway, New York, is one of the ‘‘books of the season’’; being of a light and gay

  	383


nature, fitted to purposes of holiday amusement, or as a gift, and ‘brave’ to look upon. The ‘‘Sybil’’ consists of numerous extracts from the poets, descriptive of character, and other matters, all fitted as answers to the questions coming under eighteen general heads.  For  a  pleasant  social  pastime,  we  should  think  the  book,  therefore,  very serviceable. . . . . . . . . . . . It has been not a little astonishing to us, looking over the	5 pages of this volume, to find how full and varied are the descriptions of personal and natural peculiarities, of different kinds, by the writers of late ages! Shakspere, of course, has the most graphic descriptions; but there are many other poets, too, who, at times, paint in a few lines what an ordinary man could not describe in a volume. The mind of the reader swells within him, to think of the vastness of mind—the immense  10 width and scope of it—as portrayed in excerpts such as these. . . . . . The ‘‘Sybil’’ is printed in a fine sort, and bound with elegance and gilding.
    ‘‘Rainbows for children,’’ is the fanciful title of a collection of stories, etc. by Mrs. L. M. Child, published in very neat form, gilded, and with striped muslin covers, by
C. S. Francis, 252 Broadway, New York. Nine sweetly written pieces, some of them  15 with veins of pure poetical thought and style, make up the contents of the volume. Such aliment as this, it is, which enriches and makes generous the minds of children.
    Wiley & Putnam have issued the second part of W. G. Simms’s ‘‘Views and Reviews of  American history, literature, and fiction.’’ Mr. Simms has the fine qualities, with some  of the faults, of his southern clime. He is often correct in his views—indeed,  20 generally so—but has not the faculty of condensing ideas into a clear and small compass. This volume forms number 28 of that excellent series, Wiley & Putnam’s
‘‘Library of American books.’’
‘‘Midsummer Eve, a fairy tale of love,’’ by Mrs. S. C. Hall, has been issued in cheap
form by the Harpers—forming number 108 of the ‘‘Library of select novels.’’	25
The same firm have published number 34 of the Pictorial England, one of the
noblest compositions, in the historical line, of the age. Some seven or eight more
numbers will complete it.

30




December 20, 1847


Holiday Publications
35

THE   POETICAL  LANGUAGE  OF  FLOWERS, or the Pilgrimage of love; by Thomas Miller, (edited here by Mrs. E. O. Smith.) Published by J. C. Riker, New York.
    Here is indeed something of a superior order, both as regards intrinsic merit, typographical excellence, and beauty of binding. Originally compiled by a talented English  writer  and  poet,  and  this  edition  edited  by  a  lady  favorably  known  to  40
American literature, (a Brooklynite, by the by,) it steps at once into the good graces of the reader, with such an introduction. The colored plates in this work, (by Ackerman, we believe,) have done faithful justice to nature; and, next to their beautiful prototypes, are deserving of the admiration of flower lovers.—At the end of the volume is a
lexicon of the sentimental meaning of flowers—fuller than any hitherto published. The  45 book is peculiarly appropriate as a gift book, for the ensuing holidays. It is for sale, in Brooklyn, at the stores of Mr. Wilder, in Fulton and Atlantic streets.
    From amid the many beautiful selections, in this book, we extract the following about old age and flowers:
    
384	  


‘‘Somehow the flowers seem different  now
The  daisies dimmer than of  old,
There’s fewer blossoms on the bough,
The  hawthorn buds seem gray and  cold;
5	The  pansies wore another hue
When  I was young—when I was  young—
There’s not that blue about the sky
Which  every way in those days  hung.
There’s nothing now looks as it ought;
10	Said  Time: ‘‘The change is in thy thought.’’

New edition of the BOOK   OF   COMMON   PRAYER,  &c., according to the Protestant
Episcopal church. Stanford & Swords, 139 Broadway, New York.
A most exquisite edition, in superb binding, this, of a book which every Episcopalian,
of  course,  needs.  The  psalms  and  hymns  of  the  church  are  also  added;  and  the
15    unsurpassed fineness of the whole material and work will recommend it to favor.
Those who wish a prayer-book as a remembrance gift to a friend the ensuing holydays,
can hardly find a better than this.

THE   BOOK  OF  ENTERTAINMENT, of curiosities and wonders in Nature, art and mind. Drawn from the most authentic sources carefully revised, and illustrated by more  than one
20	hundred engravings. 2d series. C. S. Francis & co., 252 Broadway, New York.
If ‘‘variety is charming,’’ then this fat little volume is charming—for it is indeed
full of matter, of many different sorts. It does not assume to the highest style of typo-
graphical execution—but then it is of respectable appearance, even in that way, and
the  price  is  moderate.  To  youth,  it  must  of  course  be  acceptable.  The  travellers’
25    adventures described, the natural curiosities, &c., make it, to some persons, preferable,
for the young, to works of pure fiction.

GLIMPSES   OF   THE   WONDERFUL.—Third series.—Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y.
Two numbers of this series, (each of which, however, is perfectly complete in
itself) have been formerly noticed in these columns; the present is, perhaps, rather an
30    improvement on the others. Its style, though simple, is choice and well-bred; the
subjects selected are interesting; and the pictorial illustrations are all of them good. It is
intended, principally, as a present for young persons.

THE   LITTLE   REPUBLIC.—Original articles from various hands ; Edited by Mrs. T. P. Smith.
Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, New York.
35	Grave and gay, poetry and prose, didactic and narrative, make up the ‘sorts’ (to
use a printer ’s term,) in this volume. From the authors’ names attached to some of the
articles, one is fully warranted in believing that the contents must be of interest. The
book is pervaded by a thoroughly moral tone.





December 22, 1847


Theatricals in New York


Mrs. Bishop, and her company, have been ‘before the people’ at the Broadway
45    theatre some seven nights past, in the Italian and English opera—and gloriously have

  	385


they sung and played, too! We consider Mrs. B. among the best singers—perhaps the best—that have yet appeared upon the stage in this country. . . . . The Broadway is managed liberally, and deserves the patronage of Brooklynites.

5


December 22, 1847
Young Men of Brooklyn, Look at This!
10
    The great element of success in life, for young people to start with, is, dependence on one’s self alone, combined with reasonable perseverance; as is shown in the following extract from an exchange paper:
[Quotation omitted—20 ll.]
15




December 23, 1847


New and Beautiful Music
20

    Mr. Charles Holt, of 156 Fulton street, near Broadway, New York, has just published several fine pieces of music—one of them specially appropriate to this day of the present writing, the 22d inst. viz:
    ‘A bark has moored, &c., a song of the landing of the Pilgrims at Plymouth in the winter of 1620 for four voices; by Thomas Hastings, professor of music.	25
    Many a sweet-lipped Yankee girl, we opine, will be singing this song—assisted by the proper Yankee ‘tenore’ and ‘basso.’
The following are also politely sent us from the same address:

Brooklyn Polka, composed by G. L. Gleim.
Jersey  Blue, a waltz, also by G. L. Gleim.	30

    Mr. Holt has a fine display of musical instruments and music—worthy the attention of all, particularly those who would make presents of something in this line, the ensuing holidays.
35



December 27, 1847
More and Worse Suffering in Ireland—	40
What Shall Be the Remedy?

    The news from Ireland, which comes by the Hibernia, will cause sadness in many a heart throughout this country. It seems that that unhappy island is fated to undergo another severe season of want, starvation, sickness and death! It is even supposed that  45 these  horrible  evils  will  be  greater  in  degree  than  they  were  during  last  winter!
. . . . . . . . . . . . The worst part of the whole matter is, that no one can see where and how these evils, under the present state of things, are to be obviated. Surely they will

386	  


prevail as long as the present organization of relations between England and Ireland prevails. On the other hand, can any man at all familiar with the whole bearings of the subject, deny that if an Irish parliament, with a reasonable stretch of power, met in Dublin, but it would find means to check and eventually obliterate these frightful privations? The
5    cause of Irish suffering lies deeper than the mere want of daily bread.—The truest alleviation for it is to be found in the great principle of Irish repeal.
    Among the accursed outrages which history records, there are few worse ones than those which the English rulers have perpetrated for ages toward Ireland— creating and preserving, of late years, a state of things which results in misery of the
10    most appaling kind to the great masses, merely that a few lordlings, priests of a faith not popular there, and ‘gentry,’ may have still their fat pay—pay that very many of them draw away from Ireland and spend elsewhere. Can a man with a throbbing heart in his breast know these things without every hot and indignant impulse of his blood bubbling up against so cruel and deliberate a system? human flesh and sinews, and
15    their own good soil, sacrificed, that a few pampered strangers may retain their serene arrangements—and that ‘‘the government’’ may preserve its dignity? Dignity, quotha! while groaning men, and pale women, and dying children, attest the damnable selfishness of the fiction!

20



December 27, 1847


Vagrom Woman


25		Ann McDonough had occasion to bless her lucky stars on Christmas for being sent for sixty days to the county jail for vagrancy. This will just about carry her comfortably through the cold weather. Happy Ann!




30

December 29, 1847




Did O’Connell Do Evil or Good?


35		A New York evening contemporary, of high position among its fellow presses, gives its readers of Tuesday night, an attack on the now dead O’Connell, embodying more flippancy, and falsehood of imputation, than can often be found in the most virulent partisan diatribes. The print we allude to sets out with a professed desire to consider the moral of Mr. O’Connell’s life with all fairness. But not many sentences
40    elapse before the bearing of hatred toward that ‘‘confirmed papist’’ is exhibited in full blush. It pretends to discuss O’Connell’s great power over his countrymen, and his use of that power—saying:

‘‘Unquestionably it was to stamp upon the minds of the Irish people an indomitable belief
45    that they were the most cruelly wronged and oppressed people under heaven—that no part of
their sufferings was attributable to themselves to be alleviated by any effort of their own except

  	387


in one particular channel—that melioration of their lot was to be obtained only  by political means—and that however multiform their distress or difficulty, it all had one single cause, the domination of the Saxon.’’

    Well, and who shall say that all this is not true, quite to the letter? If the ample pages of history can show a nation more perseveringly oppressed for eight hundred	5 years by another nation, than Ireland by England, we, at least, know it not! From the first invasion of the former country by the English—through the horrors enacted athwart its fair borders under the merciless Elizabeth—through the burn-and-slay visitations of ‘‘Cromwell of the iron hand’’—down to the rebellion and martyrdoms at
the close of the last century—there has been nothing on the one hand better than  10
imperiousness,  selfishness,  bigotry  in  that  worst  of  guises  where  it  assumes  to
condemn bigotry, a blood-sucking desire for all that the more powerful party could
‘‘make’’ out of the land and the people, scorn for the poverty of the nation, pitiless
severity for its weaknesses, and its soul-dear faith scouted in every possible way, while
it was made to pay for a religion it hated! Are these truths—(for that they are truths, we  15
appeal to history)—likely to build up love on the part of a generous and high spirited
race toward those who treat them so? We trow not. For a little drop of such treatment
as  this  our  forefathers  threw  off  the  dominion  of  Britain.  And  so  have  the  Irish
attempted to throw it off: and so is every patriotic feeling among Irishmen ardent now
to throw it off, even at the cost of blood; and so, for our part, we are free to say, they  20
have  every  sympathy  of  our  heart,  at  least,  in  the  attempt,  whenever  it  shall  be
made. . . . Then goes on the New York Journal:

    ‘‘With this belief would naturally come intense and unextinguishable hatred of the Saxon; but Mr. O’Connell was not content to have it come of its own accord; he  suggested, incited, fostered  and  envenomed  it  by  every  means  his  active  intellect  could  devise,  or  his  artful  25 eloquence accomplish. He taught his countrymen to hate and envy the Saxon; and though he continually denounced bloodshed, or violence of any kind, the natural, the inevitable result of
his  teaching was to produce bloodshed and violence in the end.’’

    It is difficult for a man with warm blood in his veins to conceive what feeling a true hearted Irishman can possess, much stronger than ‘‘hatred of the Saxon,’’ that is as  30 a government. What would you have them do, you writer whom we suppose to be a countryman of Hancock and Adams—of the other ‘‘rebels’’ who fought at Breed’s—
and of the ‘‘old continental congress’’? Would you have them still live on, in their poverty, as dull, if not so fat, as the ‘weed that rots on Lethe’s wharf’? Would you have them submit still? fawn like dogs to those who misuse them? say it is all very well that  35 their country’s substantial blood is drawn away to give nourishment elsewhere, while they, its children, wither and die? For our part, we even find it difficult to realize how O’Connell contemned, as a remedy for greater horrors, ‘‘bloodshed and violence’’—at least for any other reason than what was probably the reason with him—that England
is as vindictive every where, and as potent over there, as she has in his country’s case  40
shown herself regardless of common humanity.
The print we have quoted from goes on to intimate that the evils, want, and
assassinations, lately and at present rife in Ireland, are the legitimate products of
O’Connell’s life and teachings! We will not so insult the memory of that great man, as
to think it worth while to explain away so foul a sophism.	45

388	  


    For the last fifty years, famine, pestilence, and murder, have been no new things in Ireland. Those terrific results, in this case, of a bad government, (aye, for so they are, in spite of all your talk about ‘‘visitations of Providence’’) have made a trinity of wretchedness, many a time and oft, in poor Erin—and, if the present relations with ‘‘the
5    Saxon’’ continue to exist, no man who knows the true exigencies of the case may reasonably hope that the same wretchedness can be lessened.





10    December 30, 1847


[Literary Notice]


    The January number of Hunts’ Merchants’ Magazine, contains an interesting article on the subject of the seat of government of the United States.—While we could not
15    altogether agree with the positions taken in the article, it is undoubtedly written with ability, and contains many interesting reminiscences. . . . . . . Hunt’s magazine should be taken and read by every business man.




20
December 30, 1847



Dirty Streets


Not in the memory of ‘‘the oldest inhabitant’’ have Brooklyn streets been so
25    abominably dirty as at the present writing.





December 31, 1847
30


New Year’s Day


Soon after this edition of the Brooklyn Eagle is circulated among its readers, the
‘New Year ’—the reign of ’48—will commence: one of those dividers of time will be
passed, and the world fairly afloat on the fresh tide. Many dry homilies are customary
35    about these times. The importance of ‘‘good resolutions,’’ and of ‘‘turning over a new
leaf,’’ are duly expatiated upon—and the ladies set out their tables preparatory to
receiving New Year calls. . . . . . Eighteen hundred and forty-seven! thus many years
have sped over the earth, since the commencement of the christian era! And with all
the before alluded to ‘‘good resolutions,’’ people are just as wicked as ever; and with all
40    the changes, mother Earth is pretty much the same old two and sixpence. Customs,
dress, government, and so forth, have differed at various times, and differ now; but
human nature is about what it was before the flood, and before the ‘‘dark ages,’’ and
during them too.
Is there nothing, then, in all these vaunted reforms of us moderns? in this much
45    boasted  ‘‘intelligence  of  the  age’’?  Yes:  though  they  do  not  change  man,  nor  his
passions. The religion of Christ is incomparably superior to all other religions—though

  	389


it cannot make man essentially different. All reforms tend to the great result of freeing man’s body and his mind from the dark tyranny, in some shape or other, that has been accumulating on them for centuries. They perform more the labor of hewing away than adding to.
We enjoin upon our readers, young and old, feminine and masculine, and married	5
and single, by all means to make themselves as ‘‘happy’’ as is consistent with reason,
this nigh-at-hand New Year ’s Day.





December 31, 1847

10

New Music


Mr. Charles Holt, of 156 Fulton street, N. Y. has published:
‘The deaf and dumb girl’s dream,’ words by Charles, music by Jacob, and sung by  15
Adele of the ‘Orphean family.’
‘The laurel and the cypress,’ a little impromptu for the piano, by Father Heinrich.
Really pretty.
Mr. Holt has also a large assortment of music, some fine music annuals, &c.
Among his sweetest pieces are,	20
A march: ‘Man goeth to his long home’—words by Rev. A. C. Cox, of Brooklyn.
‘The last sad scene,’ a ballad, music by F. H. Nash.





January 3, 1848

25

Letter from Gen. Cass


 THE   LATE  LETTER OF  SENATOR  CASS —Gen. Cass has lately been writing a letter on important topics. In it he declares boldly that we should ‘‘war to the knife’’ with   30
Mexico, and that no peace should be agreed upon till an indemnity for all expenses and debts be rendered by the constituted authorities of that country—in which latter idea the country and he are of one opinion. He thinks too that every state must have perfect local control in the management of its affairs, else divisions and bickerings would operate incessantly to split the confederation into sectional fragments. Mr. Cass  35 is opposed to slavery, but he is likewise opposed to any ‘‘improper interference’’ with
the government and management of particular states. Therefore he could not agree to the  principle sought to be established by ‘‘the Wilmot Proviso,’’ that in any newly acquired territory the government of the Union should declare, that in such acquired land no slavery should be permitted.	40
    All this might come with a better show of sense, if the legislative power of Con- gress over all its territories, were not as supreme, while they are territories, as the state legislatures over their respective states. While congress is the local government, too, for these territories, it may be viewed merely as a question of policy, of profit and loss,
whether to introduce negro slavery into those states or not. Is there a sane man who will  45
say that it is profitable so to introduce slavery?

390	  




January 4, 1848


More Legislative Doctoring


We are to be saddled forthwith with another dose—or rather with numerous
5    doses—of legislation.—Hardly has one set of doctors left us, than another succeeds—
while we people are pretty much in the condition that the poor fox feared for himself,
while crossing the river, as a consequence of driving away one swarm of flies. The
legislature of this state convenes this day (4th) at Albany, and will continue in session,
probably, one hundred days, as by the new constitution the full allowance of each
10    member cannot exceed $300, except in cases of impeachment.
It is not, as yet, known, upon what subjects the legislative doctors will try their
hands. That they must give physic, however, seems to be a settled necessity, in their
minds. Whether well or ill, we have to take it—and pay for it too. . . . . . . Will the day
ever arrive when people will see the folly of this excessive legislation?
15




January 4, 1848

20


Ladies’ Calls

    Even our editorial sanctum was honored, yesterday, (3d) with ladies’ calls. Wern’t we a happy set?. . . . . . Heaven bless the ladies!




25
January 6, 1848



About Newspapers


What a world there is, indeed, in newspapers!—It is little understood, (after all the
30    talk about the ‘‘influence of the press,’’) what a prodigious quantity of elements is
required to make up that ‘‘press.’’ In this country, our literature is mainly composed of
periodical publications—from daily to monthly; and these give their hue to the minds
of the people;—more than that, they often give a superficial character to the people,
and make them light and ephemeral in mind, as it were. Perhaps the republic has yet to
35    see the press here in any thing like its highest developement. All hands are too fond of
making money directly: a passion that is ever at war with intellectual completeness; a
passion sometimes at war with itself.
Still we believe that American newspapers are better as a body, than the news-
papers of England—the only country where there is any thing worthy to be called a
40    free press; (for the French papers with much talent, have a cramped stiffness.) We
possess infinitely more newspapers, of course, than the English: and, in the way of
getting late news the New York Tribune, Sun, and Herald, are fully equal in forethought
and outlays to any journals in England. The London papers, though many of their
‘‘leaders’’ are choice specimens of force and pungent style, have oftentimes sad trash in
45    their editorial columns. In the way of elegance of composition, none of them prints
articles equal to those that proceed from Mr. Bryant’s pen, in the Evening Post—and

  	391


none  that  in  dashy  strength  and  freedom  and  clearness,  are  like  Leggett’s  old editorials, in the same paper.
    The New York press—if our brethren there will excuse us for a few remarks into their domain—affords many peculiar features, both in literary and other points of view. We are no admirers of the Herald’s flippant, sneering, exclusively selfish and	5 sordid method in its editorial department; but still consider that that print has done an immense advantage to the American press, in the way of offering it an example of newspaper enterprise and activity. Not until the advent of the Herald did the ‘‘Wall street press’’ get the wind taken out of its sails; for previous to that time the cheap papers were purchased merely because they were cheap; afterward because they were  10 better.
    Probably our readers would like to know the circulation of the New York papers. If they would we can gratify them—for the means are in our possession, and from undeniable data, as follows:

Sun .......................... 30,000	Journal of Com.   ..............   2,000  15
Herald  ....................... 12,000	Commercial Adv.   .............   1,500
Tribune   ...................... 10,000	Evn’g Mirror  .................	600
True Sun  .....................   8,000	Sunday Dispatch .............. 13,000
Express (morning and evening) .   8,000	’’	Times   ................   7,200
Globe  ........................   3,500	’’	Atlas	................   6,800  20
Courier   ......................   2,500	’’	Mercury  ..............   6,300

    Of the Sunday papers this statement is positive; of the others the circulation is very closely upon the figures put down—not varying more than a hundred or so in most instances. The Evening Post’s circulation we do not know, but understand it to be a respectable one.	25
Taken altogether, there is a vast amount of good reading, and writing, in the New
York papers.—Only think of the haste of preparation, and the amount needed; and one
will be ready to excuse the frequent want of condensation, and the looseness of style,
noticeable in many editorial articles. Great is the estate of the press! and in it, great are
the newspapers of New York!	30





January 6, 1848


A Word for the Theatre	35


    While divines, who will not visit the theatre, and therefore cannot be supposed to know, truly, much about it, are inveighing against the art which Hannah More loved, and Joanna Baillie wrote for, and Miss Edgeworth defended;—while, we say, it is considered ‘‘religious,’’ among a few, to condemn the theatre, it may not be amiss to  40 stop awhile, and think whether there be not something in such statements as the following, from the Harbinger:

    ‘‘We have heard merchants of probity declare that going to the theatre, after spending the day in their counting houses, was like rising out of hell into paradise, and we know estimable
    
392	  


laboring people who say that but for an occasional relaxation in the pit of the Park or Bowery, their excessive toil would drag the life out of them, and drive them to the bar-room and rum- hole. In fact, we sincerely believe, bad as the theatre is, in many respects, that if it were made less expensive, and every man, woman and child in the community could visit it two or three times a
5    week,  it would work an instant and prodigious moral advancement.’’

    And we believe so, with you, good Harbinger. There is virtue in amusement—let the straightlaced say what they will. In this country, and even at this time, the theatre doubtless needs a newer and fresher ‘‘developement’’—a sloughing of old formalities, and  a  fitting of  itself  to  this  age,  this  country,  and  the  new  school  of  ideas  and
10    intelligence. But even as it is, can there be any thing, except themes of interest, in what Shakspere has written? And among modern dramatists, can Bulwer ’s pieces, or those adopted for Macready, with many more, of the same sort, easily tire the ear? We trow not! They are the creations of genius, have the divine stamp upon them, and must appear  well  to  those  who  can  appreciate  genius.  Hardly  any  man,  even  of  the
15    commonest mind, will pass an evening in the Broadway or Park or Olympic theatres without getting refreshed. As to evil, he can get into it, doubtless, at the theatres, as in the  streets—as  even  in  the  churches.  But  it  is  only  the  excessively  verdant  who suppose that there are more reasons why a man who occasionally relaxes his mind and body by a visit to the theatre, should get into mischief there, of necessity, than in any
20    other public place. . . . . . . . . . Let the virtuous have done with these attempts upon the theatre. Dramatic performances will always exist, in every civilized community— and should exist. They would be better, no doubt, reformed;—they cannot be abolished. Nor is the reformation of the kind which devotional persons would mean. It is of the kind alluded to in a foregoing sentence.
25




January 6, 1848

30


[A Wife]

    The Brooklyn Eagle boys did justice to some wedding cake and champagne, this morning. But O, hevings! The idea of an editor taking unto himself such a precious and costly treasure as a wife!

35


January 7, 1848
Disagreement among the Legislative Doctors
40
Our  readers  will  see,  by  the  congressional  report,  published  in  an  adjoining
column, that still another ‘‘defining of a position’’ has been had among the honorable
senators of the republic. Mr. Hale, of New Hampshire, goes against the war, out and
out, and has much to say about the motives of the president—casting imputations
45    upon those motives which we are fain to assert must be considered, in our view, as utterly shameful and unfounded!
It  is  a  curious  state  of  opinion  that  now  exists,  at  Washington,  among  the

  	393


legislators, on this Mexican war. There are more ‘‘notions’’ about it, among members of congress, than signs in the zodiac. It is useless to deny that there is a very potent anti- war feeling in the house of representatives—a feeling just short of a majority there, and kept in check only by the overwhelming voice of the mass of the people (the ‘‘common people,’’ if you please,) which does not refine upon abstractions, and cannot see the	5 use  of  making  our  republic  the  world’s  laughing  stock,  as  we  should  be  by withdrawing our troops at once and unconditionally from Mexico.
    How useless is it, too, that sage grave men, and not a few editors, spend much breath and brains in arguing in what way the war began, and who had most of wrong
or most of right at the commencement! These points are worth but little now, to the  10 nation. (In history, of course, they will be different.) What has been done, is past; and whatever the causes were, they will have just as much weight in our future ‘‘destinies’’
as though those causes had been totally reversed. We are to look at things as they now are.  Lives there any number of sane men, who would be willing to see our troops ordered home, at once—and without any further parley, giving up everything to  15
Mexico? There are a few such persons, both in and out of congress; but among the masses of the people such ideas are deservedly treated with scorn!





January 8, 1848

20

[A School-Master]


    We scarcely know of a more touching instance of ‘the ruling passion strong in death,’ than is afforded in the last words of a school-master who had gone in and out  25 before successive little flocks in the same place for upwards of thirty years. When the film of death was gathering over his eyes, which were soon to open in the presence of Him who took little children in his arms and blessed them, he said: ‘‘It is getting dark—the boys may go out—school’s dismissed!’’
30




January 8, 1848


Andrew Jackson
35

    To-day is the thirty-third anniversary of the battle of New Orleans, at the close of our last war with Great Britain. It provokes a few words and thoughts of him whose fame will grow brighter and greater with the passage of every successive year: we mean the sage and hero ANDREW   JACKSON.
    We are, in this hurrying and busy land, not very apt, or else forget, to trace events  40 back to their beginnings; otherwise we should give the credit of some of the greatest democratic reforms, even of a late date, to President Jackson. It was his veto on the United States bank bill that aroused the democrats of principle to make a stand against
the paper money corruptions—which has since resulted in the establishment of the independent  treasury,  and  in  some  of  the  most  valuable  provisions  of  the  new  45 constitution of this state.
Andrew Jackson was a Man of the People, worth more than hundreds of political

394	  


leaders—worth, indeed, more than all the selfish ones that ever lived. His example, his stern honesty and love of the truth, are fitting themes both for the present and future; and, undoubtedly, future historians will mark our lamented chieftain as among the select few of heroes, great enough by their deeds, but greater still by their virtues, and
5    the good that followed from them.




January 10, 1848
10
Ten Minutes in the Engine Room of a Brooklyn Ferry Boat

    Crossing the Fulton ferry the other evening we were invited by a friend, of engi- neering accomplishments, to walk down in the engine room. This is a place, doubtless,
15    which very few of the thousands of passengers who cross the ferry ever visit. But it is an almost sublime sight that one beholds there! for indeed there are few more magnificent pieces of handiwork than a powerful steam-engine, swiftly at work! . . . We do not profess to understand the tricks—or rather the simplicities—of machinery, as evinced in one of these boats; so that the reader need look for no allusion of a
20    scientific nature in this paragraph. At one end is the fiery region of living heat, the roaring, glowing coals, which look like a small edition of the infernal regions. The draft rumbles with a mighty hissing sound between a few little interstices; and through the mica plates, as through glass, one beholds a powerful mass of hotness quite terrible to look upon. It is enough to make a sinful man feel any other feeling on earth than that
25    of pleasurable anticipation.
Toward the other end moves up and down, (resistless as fate while it does move,
and yet stopped by a turn of the finger,) the mighty arm of the engine! There is a
strange gratification in standing and looking on this ponderous bar in motion. It makes
one  think  that  man—he  who  can  invent  such  powers  as  this—is  not  such  an
30    insignificant creature after all.
All the immense power of this able-to-kill-and-destroy structure is controlled by a
couple of men, who stop it or set it a going as easily as a child rolls his hoop.




35

January 10, 1848




Milton—‘‘Harpers’ Illustrated Edition’’


40		It has been said of Milton that he does not persuade but commands admiration. The same remark may be made in reference to this edition of the works of the great poet of heaven and hell. Without any extravagance of language, it is an edition which, whatever may be the improvements in and additions to typographical embellishment for many years to come, must remain a choice work of the age! It is published in two
45    volumes, large duodecimo; and is explained, as well as adorned, with one hundred and twenty engravings, from drawings by William Harvey. It is also prefaced with a memoir  of  Milton,  and  critical  remarks  on  his  genius  and  writings,  by  James

  	395


Montgomery. The type will be pronounced by the critical printer a marvel of clearness and cleanness—every letter and every hair-stroke standing forth as sharply cut on the thick white paper of superfine quality, as in the choicest specimen of London work—to which we consider this fully equal, even the best of it! Bound in durable morocco, and liberally gilt, with ornaments designed by the hand of taste, there is hardly a book,	5 even from the Harpers’ teeming press, which deserves higher praise, in the method of
its execution, than this.
There seems to be a peculiar appropriateness, it may almost be said a necessity,
that Milton’s poems should be put before the world in such a graceful and elegantly
adorned manner. With all his grandeur, this poet certainly wants some endearing and  10
softening accompaniments—even those furnished by these beautiful pictorial designs,
and by the superb outward embellishments of the volumes under notice. As a writer,
Milton is stern, lofty, and grand; his themes are heavenly high, and profoundly deep. A
man must have something of the poet’s own vast abruptness, (if we use such a term,)
in order to appreciate this writer, who, apparently conscious of his own gigantic  15
proportions, disdains the usual graces and tricks of poets who are read more widely,
and understood more easily, because they have not his qualities. The towering pile of
cliffs, with yawning caverns in the side, and mysterious summits piercing the clouds,
while the lightning plays on their naked breasts, is not, to the usual world, half so
favorite an object as the landscape of cultivated meadows fringed with a little wood,  20
and watered by a placid stream.
For our part, we think a reader of him who was indeed inspired by the

‘‘heavenly muse that on the secret  top
Of  Oreb, or Sinai, didst inspire
25
That  shepherd who first taught the chosen  seed,
In  the beginning, how the heavens and earth,
Rose  out of chaos,’’

would understand his teacher better, in such an edition as this new one of the Harpers.
For who shall despise manner and appearance? The pictorial designs have caught the  30
spirit of the poet, and speak through the eye to the mind.
In conclusion, we have but to say that the production of this lasting work, in a fitly
lasting form, adds another to the obligations which the republic of letters, and the
choice many among readers—for so we must change the phrase, in application to this
country—are under to the Messrs. Harpers, for producing superb editions of the most  35
vital poets of the English tongue.





January 10, 1848

40
[Literary Notices]


    ‘‘Water cure in America; two hundred and twenty cases of various diseases treated with water, with cases of domestic practice, etc.; edited by a water patient,’’ is pro- duced in neat style from the house of Wiley & Putnam, 161 Broadway, N. Y. All of these  45 cases are interesting, some of them very remarkable. And not the least thing to be no- ticed in writings upon this kind of medical treatment—and in this book particularly—
    
396	  


is the confident tone in which both patients and physicians speak of the means of remedy. Also, we may mention the openness of those means; every thing being done fairly and above board. Wiley & Putnam have many other works—we believe all that have been written both here and abroad—on the subject of hydropathy.
5		‘‘The Last Incarnation; Gospel legends of the nineteenth century; by A. Constant; translated by Francis Geo. Shaw,’’ is just published by W. H. Graham, Tribune buildings, New York. Our readers have already been presented with one of these charming legends, in a late number of our paper. They are filled with sweet morals; and are printed in very neat form.
10		Littell’s Living Age continues to be issued from its New York publishing office, of Berford & co., under the Astor house. We know of no periodical which combines so many attractive and permanently useful features as this.
    Number 60 of Virtue’s Devotional Family Bible contains a fine plate of ‘‘David playing to Saul.’’—This noble edition of the Sacred Scriptures is verging to completion.
15		The Democratic Review for January has been out some time. It contains a fund of good reading and writing.
    The Christian Parlor Magazine commences its issue for ’48 with unflagging vigor, and much merit in its editorial and other departments. Rev. J. T. Headley still remains its editor.
20		‘‘Songs for the People’’ comes to us from Zeiber & co., Philadelphia. It is for sale, doubtless, at the Brooklyn bookstores.
‘‘The Young American’s Magazine,’’ for January ’48, comes from Geo. W. Light, 3
Cornhill, Boston.

25



January 12, 1848


Children


30		Children are social beings. They bring into the world with them the undeveloped elements of those very affections to which they are indebted for preservation and physical comfort during the most helpless period of their existence, as well as of all other soft endearments of life, in the several stages of its progress. Constitutional differences there certainly are in this respect, as well as every other. Some children are
35    naturally more social and affectionate than others. This, every mother must have observed in her own nursery. But whatever diversities may exist, the general constitu- tion is everywhere the same, and the social affections need to be watchfully and judiciously educated, no less than the intellect, and the conscience.

40



January 13, 1848


45



School Superintendent for Brooklyn

    We are glad to notice that a bill providing for a general superintendent of public schools in the city of Brooklyn, passed the assembly of this state yesterday. An officer
    
  	397


of this description is very much needed here; and if the right sort of person be selected, he can do vast good both for the schools and the public interest—which indeed are more intimately connected than some folks might imagine.

5



January 14, 1848


[Brooklyn City Lamps]


    This is really the age of wonders; we tho’t the marvels of mesmerism, magnetic  10 telegraphs, &c., were enough for one age; but we have just been informed of a fact more extraordinary than any or all of these. A friend assures us that one of our Brooklyn city lamps, in front of his dwelling, absolutely burned all night! once this week, and the light thereof was still in existence at 7 o’clock in the morning!! There can
be nothing beyond this. We begin to believe in Miller ’s theory, that the end of the  15
world is at hand.


